
1. Front Hum Neurosci. 2015 Apr 21;9:214. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2015.00214. eCollection
2015.

Altered cerebellar connectivity in Parkinson's patients ON and OFF L-DOPA
medication.

Festini SB(1), Bernard JA(2), Kwak Y(3), Peltier S(4), Bohnen NI(5), Müller
ML(6), Dayalu P(7), Seidler RD(8).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Vital Longevity, School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences,
University of Texas at Dallas Dallas, TX, USA ; Department of Psychology,
University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (2)Department of Psychology and
Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder Boulder, CO, USA. (3)Department of
Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts Amherst Amherst,
MA, USA. (4)Functional MRI Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering,
University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (5)Department of Radiology, University
of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA ; Department of Neurology, University of Michigan 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA ; Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, VA Ann
Arbor Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (6)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA. (7)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI,
USA. (8)Department of Psychology, University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA ;
School of Kinesiology, University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Although nigrostriatal changes are most commonly affiliated with Parkinson's
disease, the role of the cerebellum in Parkinson's has become increasingly
apparent. The present study used lobule-based cerebellar resting state functional
connectivity to (1) compare cerebellar-whole brain and cerebellar-cerebellar
connectivity in Parkinson's patients both ON and OFF L-DOPA medication and
controls, and to (2) relate variations in cerebellar connectivity to behavioral
performance. Results indicated that, when contrasted to the control group,
Parkinson's patients OFF medication had increased levels of cerebellar-whole
brain and cerebellar-cerebellar connectivity, whereas Parkinson's patients ON
medication had decreased levels of cerebellar-whole brain and
cerebellar-cerebellar connectivity. Moreover, analyses relating levels of
cerebellar connectivity to behavioral measures demonstrated that, within each
group, increased levels of connectivity were most often associated with improved 
cognitive and motor performance, but there were several instances where increased
connectivity was related to poorer performance. Overall, the present study found 
medication-variant cerebellar connectivity in Parkinson's patients, further
demonstrating cerebellar changes associated with Parkinson's disease and the
moderating effects of medication.

PMCID: PMC4405615
PMID: 25954184  [PubMed]


2. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May 2. pii: S1353-8020(15)00192-3. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.029. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of LRRK2 and GBA mutations in a Brazilian family with Parkinson's
disease.

Spitz M(1), Pereira JS(2), Nicareta DH(3), Abreu GM(4), Bastos EF(5), Seixas
TL(6), Pimentel MM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Section, Neurology Service, State University of Rio de
Janeiro, Hospital Universitário Pedro Ernesto, Av. 28 de Setembro,77, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil. Electronic address: marianaspitz@gmail.com. (2)Movement
Disorders Section, Neurology Service, State University of Rio de Janeiro,
Hospital Universitário Pedro Ernesto, Av. 28 de Setembro,77, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. (3)Estácio de Sá University, Rua Riachuelo, 27, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Genetics Department, Institute of Biology Roberto Alcantara Gomes, State
University of Rio de Janeiro, Av. 28 de Setembro, 87, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Cytogenetics Laboratory, Rio de Janeiro State University, Hospital
Universitário Pedro Ernesto, Av. 28 de Setembro, 77, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;
Medical Genetics Center, Fernandes Figueira Institute, Fiocruz, Av. Rui Barbosa, 
716, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (6)Cytogenetics Laboratory, Rio de Janeiro State
University, Hospital Universitário Pedro Ernesto, Av. 28 de Setembro, 77, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

PMID: 25952961  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


3. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 24. pii: S1353-8020(15)00172-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Tremor-related quality of life: A comparison of essential tremor vs. Parkinson's 
disease patients.

Louis ED(1), Machado DG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Movement Disorders, Department of Neurology, Yale School of
Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA; Department of Chronic Disease
Epidemiology, Yale School of Public Health, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA. 
Electronic address: elan.louis@yale.edu. (2)Division of Movement Disorders,
Department of Neurology, Yale School of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT,
USA.

BACKGROUND: Tremor-related quality of life is a multi-dimensional concept that
reflects the physical, emotional and other health effects of tremor. Curiously,
tremor-related quality of life has never been directly compared in patients with 
the two major tremor disorders, essential tremor (ET) and Parkinson's disease
(PD). We performed a head-to-head comparison of ET with PD patients.
METHODS: The Quality of Life in Essential Tremor (QUEST) questionnaire was
administered to 103 ET and 103 matched PD patients enrolled in a
clinical-epidemiological study in New York.
RESULTS: The QUEST total score and QUEST physical subscore were higher in ET than
PD patients (both p < 0.05). In relative terms, ET patients reported
significantly more impairment than PD patients in multiple areas; PD patients
reported more impairment than ET patients in one area (all p ≤ 0.02). In absolute
terms, tremor impacted on many aspects of quality of life in both diseases,
including physical and psychosocial, and in one-third or more of PD patients,
tremor sometimes, frequently or always interfered with numerous physical
activities, including writing, using a typewriter/computer, fixing small things, 
dressing, eating, and holding reading material.
CONCLUSIONS: Tremor is a clinical entity that can have numerous effects on
patients. While there were relative differences between the two major tremor
disorders, ET and PD, in absolute terms, tremor impacted on several domains of
quality of life, from physical to psychosocial, in a large proportion of ET and
PD patients. Attempts to judge the efficacy of treatments for tremor, whether
pharmacological or surgical, should consider its broad impact.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25952960  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


4. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May 1. pii: S1353-8020(15)00195-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.029. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinically meaningful parameters of progression and long-term outcome of
Parkinson disease: An international consensus statement.

Puschmann A(1), Brighina L(2), Markopoulou K(3), Aasly J(4), Chung SJ(5),
Frigerio R(3), Hadjigeorgiou G(6), Kõks S(7), Krüger R(8), Siuda J(9), Wider
C(10), Zesiewicz TA(11), Maraganore DM(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden; Lund
University, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund, Neurology, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neurology, San Gerardo Hospital, Milan Center for Neuroscience, 
Monza, Italy. (3)Department of Neurology, NorthShore University Health System,
Evanston, IL, USA. (4)St. Olav's Hospital, Department of Neurology, Trondheim,
Norway. (5)Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. (6)Faculty of Medicine, University of
Thessalia, Larissa, Greece. (7)Department of Pathophysiology, University of
Tartu, Tartu, Estonia. (8)Clinical and Experimental Neuroscience, Luxembourg
Center for Systems Biomedicine (LCSB), University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg,
Centre Hospitalier de Luxembourg, Luxembourg. (9)Department of Neurology, Medical
University of Silesia, School of Medicine in Katowice, Poland. (10)Department of 
Clinical Neuroscience, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois (CHUV-UNIL),
Lausanne, Switzerland. (11)Department of Neurology, University of South Florida, 
Tampa, FL, USA. (12)Department of Neurology, NorthShore University Health System,
Evanston, IL, USA. Electronic address: dmaraganore@northshore.org.

Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with a clinical course of variable duration,
severity, and a combination of motor and non-motor features. Recent PD research
has focused primarily on etiology rather than clinical progression and long-term 
outcomes. For the PD patient, caregivers, and clinicians, information on expected
clinical progression and long-term outcomes is of great importance. Today, it
remains largely unknown what factors influence long-term clinical progression and
outcomes in PD; recent data indicate that the factors that increase the risk to
develop PD differ, at least partly, from those that accelerate clinical
progression and lead to worse outcomes. Prospective studies will be required to
identify factors that influence progression and outcome. We suggest that data for
such studies is collected during routine office visits in order to guarantee high
external validity of such research. We report here the results of a consensus
meeting of international movement disorder experts from the Genetic Epidemiology 
of Parkinson's Disease (GEO-PD) consortium, who convened to define which
long-term outcomes are of interest to patients, caregivers and clinicians, and
what is presently known about environmental or genetic factors influencing
clinical progression or long-term outcomes in PD. We propose a panel of rating
scales that collects a significant amount of phenotypic information, can be
performed in the routine office visit and allows international standardization.
Research into the progression and long-term outcomes of PD aims at providing
individual prognostic information early, adapting treatment choices, and taking
specific measures to provide care optimized to the individual patient's needs.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25952959  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


5. J Nucl Med. 2015 May 7. pii: jnumed.115.153734. [Epub ahead of print]

Dorsal-to-ventral shift in midbrain dopaminergic projections and increased
thalamic/raphe serotonergic function in early Parkinson's disease.

Joutsa J(1), Johansson J(2), Seppänen MP(3), Noponen T(2), Kaasinen V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Turku University Hospital and University of Turku, Finland; (2)Turku
University Hospital, Finland; (3)Turku PET Centre, Finland.

Loss of nigrostriatal neurons leading to dopamine depletion in the dorsal
striatum is the pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease contributing to the 
primary motor symptoms of the disease. However, Parkinson pathology is more
widespread in the brain affecting also other dopaminergic pathways and
neurotransmitter systems but these changes are less well characterized. This
study aimed to investigate the mesencephalic sriatal and extrastriatal
dopaminergic projections together with extrastriatal serotonin transporter
binding in PD.METHODS: Two hundred sixteen patients with Parkinson's disease and 
204 control patients (patients without neurodegenerative parkinsonism syndromes
and normal SPECT imaging) were investigated with SPECT using the
dopamine/serotonin transporter ligand [(123)I]FP-CIT in the clinical setting. The
group differences and midbrain correlations were analyzed voxel-by-voxel over the
entire brain.
RESULTS: We found that Parkinson patients had lower [(123)I]FP-CIT uptake in the 
striatum and ventral midbrain but higher uptake in the thalamus and raphe nuclei 
compared to control patients. In patients with Parkinson's disease, the
correlation of the midbrain tracer uptake was shifted from the putamen to
widespread corticolimbic areas. All findings were highly significant at the
voxel-level FWE-corrected P<0.05.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show that Parkinson's disease is associated not only
with the degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine neurotransmission, but also
with a parallel shift towards mesolimbic and mesocortical function. Furthermore, 
Parkinson's disease patients seem to have upregulation of brain serotonin
transporter function at the early phase of the disease.

Copyright © 2015 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Inc.

PMID: 25952735  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


6. Mov Disord. 2015 May 7. doi: 10.1002/mds.26250. [Epub ahead of print]

Disclosure of research results in genetic studies of Parkinson's disease caused
by LRRK2 mutations.

Pont-Sunyer C(1), Bressman S, Raymond D, Glickman A, Tolosa E, Saunders-Pullman
R.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, IDIBAPS,
CIBERNED, Universitat de Barcelona, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

With the advent of large genetic studies examining both symptomatic and
asymptomatic individuals, whether and how to disclose genetic research results
have become pressing questions. The need is particularly acute in the case of
LRRK2 research: Movement centers worldwide are recruiting cohorts of individuals 
with Parkinson's disease (PD) and their family members, including asymptomatic
carriers. Clinical features and treatment are complex and evolving, and
disclosure policies vary at different sites and have been modified during the
course of some studies. We present the major ethical principles of autonomy,
beneficence, nonmaleficence, and honesty that should guide disclosure policies in
studies of families with LRRK2 mutations. We make recommendations regarding
genetic counseling, policies of either active or passive disclosure,
responsibilities of funders to budget for genetic counseling, clinical genetic
testing where locally required for disclosure, and aspects of study design to
avoid mandatory disclosure whenever feasible. © 2015 International Parkinson and 
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25952684  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


7. Mov Disord. 2015 May 7. doi: 10.1002/mds.26239. [Epub ahead of print]

A new role for α-Synuclein in Parkinson's disease: Alteration of ER-Mitochondrial
communication.

Guardia-Laguarta C(1), Area-Gomez E, Schon EA, Przedborski S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, NY, USA.

Familial cases of Parkinson's disease (PD) can be associated with overexpression 
or mutation of α-synuclein, a synaptic protein reported to be localized mainly in
the cytosol and mitochondria. We recently showed that wild-type α-synuclein is
not present in mitochondria, as previously thought, but rather is located in
mitochondrial-associated endoplasmic reticulum membranes. Remarkably, we also
found that PD-related mutated α-synuclein results in its reduced association with
mitochondria-associated membranes, coincident with a lower degree of apposition
of endoplasmic reticulum with mitochondria and an increase in mitochondrial
fragmentation, as compared with wild-type. This new subcellular localization of
α-synuclein raises fundamental questions regarding the relationship of
α-synuclein to mitochondria-associated membranes function, in both normal and
pathological states. In this article, we attempt to relate aspects of PD
pathogenesis to what is known about mitochondria-associated membranes' behavior
and function. We hypothesize that early events occurring in dopaminergic neurons 
at the level of the mitochondria-associated membranes could cause long-term
disturbances that lead to PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25952565  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


8. Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 May-Jun;31(3):e65-6. doi:
10.1097/IOP.0000000000000079.

Oral methylphenidate for the treatment of refractory facial dystonias.

Eftekhari K(1), Choe CH, Vagefi MR, Gausas RE, Eckstein LA.

Author information: 
(1)*Oculofacial and Orbital Surgery Division, Scheie Eye Institute, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and
†Division of Oculoplastic, Orbital and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of
Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco,
California, U.S.A.

Oral methylphenidate (Ritalin, Novartis) has been reported to alleviate symptoms 
of benign essential blepharospasm in an off-label application. This series
presents 3 patients with refractory periorbital and facial dystonias, including
blepharospasm, apraxia of eyelid opening, and oromandibular dystonia unresponsive
to standard treatments who experienced a response to oral methylphenidate
therapy. While the mechanisms for facial dystonias have not been elucidated,
there is evidence to suggest that they are on the spectrum with Parkinson
disease. Given the role of dopamine loss in the pathogenesis of Parkinson, the
authors' speculate that methylphenidate may be acting on the pathway directly
involved in facial dystonias. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report
of a case of successful treatment of blepharospasm refractory to upper eyelid
myectomy with methylphenidate monotherapy.

PMID: 25951177  [PubMed - in process]


9. Neuropathology. 2015 May 7. doi: 10.1111/neup.12204. [Epub ahead of print]

Isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase, a cholesterol synthesizing enzyme, is
localized in Lewy bodies.

Nakamura K(1), Mori F, Tanji K, Miki Y, Yamada M, Kakita A, Takahashi H, Utsumi
J, Sasaki H, Wakabayashi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Hirosaki University Graduate School of Medicine,
Hirosaki; Department of Neurology and Neurobiology of Ageing, Kanazawa University
Graduate School of Medical Science, Kanazawa.

Isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase (IDI) is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved in the
biosynthesis of isoprenoids including cholesterols. IDI has two isoforms in
humans: IDI1 and IDI2. Since lipids are known to be a component of Lewy bodies
(LBs), we investigated the immunohistochemical localization of IDI1 and IDI2 in
the brain of patients with LB disease and multiple system atrophy (MSA) and
normal control subjects. In normal controls, the cytoplasm of neurons was weakly 
immunostained with anti-IDI1 and anti-IDI2 antibodies throughout the nervous
system. In LB disease, brainstem-type LBs were strongly positive for IDI1 and
IDI2, and cortical LBs were unstained or barely immunolabeled. Double
immunofluorescence staining revealed co-localization of phosphorylated
α-synuclein with IDI1 or IDI2. Glial cytoplasmic inclusions in MSA were
unstained. Previous studies have shown that levels of cholesterol metabolites are
increased in the cerebral cortex of patients with LB disease, and that these
metabolites accelerate α-synuclein aggregation. The present findings suggest that
IDI1 and IDI2 may be associated with the production of cholesterol metabolites in
neurons, leading to α-synuclein aggregation during the process of LB formation.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Neuropathology.

PMID: 25950736  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


10. Neuropathology. 2015 May 6. doi: 10.1111/neup.12202. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroaxonal dystrophy in PLA2G6 knockout mice.

Sumi-Akamaru H(1), Beck G, Kato S, Mochizuki H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, 
Japan.

The PLA2G6 gene encodes group VIA calcium-independent phospholipase A2 (iPLA2 β),
which belongs to the PLA2 superfamily that hydrolyses the sn-2 ester bond in
phospholipids. In the nervous system, iPLA2 β is essential for remodeling
membrane phospholipids in axons and synapses. Mutated PLA2G6 causes
PLA2G6-associated neurodegeneration (PLAN) including infantile neuroaxonal
dystrophy (INAD) and adult-onset dystonia-parkinsonism (PARK14), which have
unique clinical phenotypes. In the PLA2G6 knockout (KO) mouse, which is an
excellent PLAN model, specific membrane degeneration takes place in neurons and
their axons, and this is followed by axonal spheroid formation. These
pathological findings are similar to those in PLAN. This review details the
evidence that membrane degeneration of mitochondria and axon terminals is a
precursor to spheroid formation in this disease model. From a young age before
the onset, many mitochondria with damaged inner membranes appear in PLA2G6 KO
mouse neurons. These injured mitochondria move anterogradely within the axons,
increasing in the distal axons. As membrane degeneration progresses, the collapse
of the double membrane of mitochondria accompanies axonal injury near impaired
mitochondria. At the axon terminals, the membranes of the presynapses expand
irregularly from a young age. Over time, the presynaptic membrane ruptures,
causing axon terminal degeneration. Although these processes occur in different
degenerating membranes, both contain tubulovesicular structures, which are a
specific ultrastructural marker of INAD. This indicates that two unique types of 
membrane degeneration underlie PLAN pathology. We have shown a new pathological
mechanism whereby axons degenerate due to defective maintenance and rupture of
both the inner mitochondrial and presynaptic membranes. This degeneration
mechanism could possibly clarify the pathologies of PLAN, Parkinson disease and
neurodegeneration with iron accumulation (NBIA), which are assumed to be due to
the primary degeneration of axons.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Neuropathology.

PMID: 25950622  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


11. Gac Med Mex. 2015 Mar-Apr;151(2):169-75.

[Prevalence, associated factors and phenomenology of psychosis in patients with
Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez-Violante M(1,)(2), Velázquez-Osuna S(1,)(2), Cervantes-Arriaga A(1),
Corona-Vázquez T(1), de la Fuente-Sandoval C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio Clínico de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, Instituto Nacional de 
Neurología y Neurocirugía, México, D.F., Mexico. (2)Clínica de Movimientos
Anormales, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía, México, D.F., Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Psiquiatría Experimental, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y
Neurocirugía, México, D.F., Mexico.

Introducción: La psicosis asociada a la EP es una de las principales
complicaciones neruopsiquiátricas, y se ha reportado que el 60% de los pacientes 
la presentarán durante su evolución. Su fisiopatología es multifactorial y
clínicamente incluye fenómenos psicóticos menores, alucinaciones y estados
confusionales. Material y métodos: Se realizó un estudio transversal en pacientes
con EP de un hospital de tercer nivel utilizando una evaluación neurológica y
neuropsiquiátrica, junto con escalas específicas para síntomas no motores,
depresivos, cognición, presencia y gravedad de síntomas psicóticos y de las
alucinaciones. Resultados: Se incluyó un total de 236 pacientes con Parkinson, de
los cuales 33 (13.9%) cumplieron los criterios para psicosis en el momento de la 
evaluación. Las alucinaciones visuales fueron el síntoma más frecuente. La edad
(p = 0.004), la edad de inicio de la enfermedad (p = 0.007), la duración de la
misma (p = 0.004), el uso de levodopa (p = 0.02) y el de amantadina (p = 0.004)
fueron los principales factores asociados a la presencia de psicosis. Conclusión:
La psicosis en la EP es una manifestación relativamente frecuente y se asocia
principalmente a factores clínicos y demográficos. Su detección oportuna
permitirá optimizar el manejo y mejorar la calidad de vida de los pacientes y sus
cuidadores.

PMID: 25946527  [PubMed - in process]


12. J Neurosci Nurs. 2015 Jun;47(3):E1. doi: 10.1097/JNN.0000000000000152.

Fatigue in Parkinson disease: an integrative review.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 25944000  [PubMed - in process]


13. J Neurosci Nurs. 2015 Jun;47(3):146-53. doi: 10.1097/JNN.0000000000000131.

Fatigue in Parkinson disease: an integrative review.

Bruno AE(1), Sethares KA.

Author information: 
(1)Questions or comments about this article may be directed to Amy E. Bruno,
PhD(c) ANP-C, at abruno@umassd.edu. She is a PhD Candidate, University of
Massachusetts Dartmouth, and Nurse Practitioner, Southcoast Neurology, North
Dartmouth, MA. Kristen A. Sethares, PhD RN CNE, is Associate Professor of
Nursing, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, North Dartmouth, MA.

Fatigue, one of the most prevalent and underassessed nonmotor symptoms in
patients with Parkinson disease (PD), is reported to be a major cause of
disability and reduced quality of life. The purpose of this review was to
systematically examine the scientific literature and report how fatigue is
defined and measured and what interventions are used to treat it. A synthesis of 
the current literature will expose the current state of the science of fatigue in
PD, propose areas for future research, and offer practice implications. An
integrative review of the literature was conducted. The electronic databases
CINAHL, Psychinfo, and PUBMED were searched using the keywords "Parkinson's
disease," "fatigue," "definition," "mental fatigue," "physical fatigue,"
"measurement," "interventions," "treatment," and "methylphenidate." One hundred
fourteen articles were found. Nineteen studies met review criteria. No universal 
definition of fatigue in PD was found, making it difficult to measure. However,
central, physical, mental, and peripheral fatigues were described. Six scales
were found that measure fatigue in PD; only one specific to PD, the Parkinson
Fatigue Scale, measured physical fatigue. Seven studies reported interventions to
treat fatigue and were categorized as medication, exercise, and alternative
interventions. None of these interventions had a significant effect on fatigue.
Findings showed that (a) there is a lack of a universally accepted definition of 
fatigue because of its subjective nature, (b) existing fatigue measurement tools 
do not measure all types of fatigue in PD, and (c) no intervention had a
significant effect on fatigue. There is a need to define and explore fatigue
further using qualitative methods. Further development of instruments to measure 
fatigue in women, younger onset, and older adults with PD is needed. A focus on
person-centered interventions to reduce fatigue in patients with PD is a research
priority.

PMID: 25943995  [PubMed - in process]


14. Curr Opin Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015 Jun;23(3):209-15. doi:
10.1097/MOO.0000000000000151.

Evidence-based treatment of voice and speech disorders in Parkinson disease.

Mahler LA(1), Ramig LO, Fox C.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Communicative Disorders, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, 
Rhode Island bUniversity of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado cColumbia University, New
York, New York dNational Center for Voice and Speech, Denver, Colorado, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Voice and speech impairments are present in nearly 90% of
people with Parkinson disease and negatively impact communication and quality of 
life. This review addresses the efficacy of Lee Silverman Voice Treatment (LSVT) 
LOUD to improve vocal loudness (as measured by vocal sound pressure level vocSPL)
and functional communication in people with Parkinson disease. The underlying
physiologic mechanisms of Parkinson disease associated with voice and speech
changes and the strength of the current treatment evidence are discussed with
recommendations for best clinical practice.
RECENT FINDINGS: Two randomized control trials demonstrated that participants who
received LSVT LOUD were significantly better on the primary outcome variable of
improved vocSPL posttreatment than alternative and no treatment groups. Treatment
effects were maintained for up to 2 years. In addition, improvements have been
demonstrated in associated outcome variables, including speech rate, monotone,
voice quality, speech intelligibility, vocal fold adduction, swallowing, facial
expression and neural activation. Advances in technology-supported treatment
delivery are enhancing treatment accessibility.
SUMMARY: Data support the efficacy of LSVT LOUD to increase vocal loudness and
functional communication in people with Parkinson disease. Timely intervention is
essential for maximizing quality of life for people with Parkinson disease.

PMID: 25943966  [PubMed - in process]


15. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 14. pii: S1353-8020(15)00133-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of cognitive domains with postural instability/gait disturbance in
Parkinson's disease.

Kelly VE(1), Johnson CO(2), McGough EL(3), Shumway-Cook A(4), Horak FB(5), Chung 
KA(6), Espay AJ(7), Revilla FJ(8), Devoto J(9), Wood-Siverio C(10), Factor
SA(11), Cholerton B(12), Edwards KL(13), Peterson AL(14), Quinn JF(15), Montine
TJ(16), Zabetian CP(17), Leverenz JB(18).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
United States. Electronic address: vekelly@u.washington.edu. (2)Department of
Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States. Electronic
address: johnsoco@uw.edu. (3)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA, United States. Electronic address: emcg@uw.edu.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
United States. Electronic address: ashumway@uw.edu. (5)Department of Neurology,
Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, United States; Portland
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Portland, OR, United States. Electronic address:
horakf@ohsu.edu. (6)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science
University, Portland, OR, United States; Portland Veterans Affairs Medical
Center, Portland, OR, United States. Electronic address: chungka@ohsu.edu.
(7)Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Cincinnati,
Cincinnati, OH, United States. Electronic address: alberto.espay@uc.edu.
(8)Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Cincinnati,
Cincinnati, OH, United States; Division of Neurology, Greenville Health System
and University of South Carolina Medical School-Greenville, United States.
Electronic address: fredy.revilla@uc.edu. (9)Department of Neurology and
Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, United States.
Electronic address: devotoj@ucmail.uc.edu. (10)Department of Neurology, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA, United States. Electronic address: cwoodsi@emory.edu.
(11)Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, United States.
Electronic address: sfactor@emory.edu. (12)Geriatric Research, Education, and
Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA,
United States; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA, United States. Electronic address: bchol@uw.edu.
(13)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United
States; Department of Epidemiology, University of California, Irvine, CA, United 
States. Electronic address: kedward1@uci.edu. (14)Department of Neurology, Oregon
Health and Science University, Portland, OR, United States; Portland Veterans
Affairs Medical Center, Portland, OR, United States. Electronic address:
peterami@ohsu.edu. (15)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science
University, Portland, OR, United States; Portland Veterans Affairs Medical
Center, Portland, OR, United States. Electronic address: quinnj@ohsu.edu.
(16)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United
States. Electronic address: tmontine@uw.edu. (17)Geriatric Research, Education,
and Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle,
WA, United States; Parkinson's Disease Research, Education, and Clinical Center, 
Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, United States;
Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
Electronic address: zabetian@u.washington.edu. (18)Lou Ruvo Center for Brain
Health, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, United States. Electronic address:
leverej@ccf.org.

INTRODUCTION: Research suggests an association between global cognition and
postural instability/gait disturbance (PIGD) in Parkinson disease (PD), but the
relationship between specific cognitive domains and PIGD symptoms is not clear.
This study examined the association of cognition (global and specific cognitive
domains) with PIGD symptoms in a large, well-characterized sample of individuals 
with PD.
METHODS: Cognitive function was measured with a detailed neuropsychological
assessment, including global cognition, executive function, memory, visuospatial 
function, and language. PIGD symptoms were measured using the Movement Disorder
Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) Part III, Motor
Examination subscale. Multiple linear regression analyses were performed to
assess the relationship between cognition and PIGD symptoms with models adjusting
for age, sex, education, enrollment site, disease duration, and motor symptom
severity.
RESULTS: The analysis included 783 participants, with mean (standard deviation)
age of 67.3 (9.7) years and median (interquartile range) MDS-UPDRS Motor Subscale
score of 26 (17, 35). Deficits in global cognition, executive function, memory,
and phonemic fluency were associated with more severe PIGD symptoms. Deficits in 
executive function were associated with impairments in gait, freezing, and
postural stability, while visuospatial impairments were associated only with more
severe freezing, and poorer memory function was associated only with greater
postural instability.
DISCUSSION: While impairments in global cognition and aspects of executive
functioning were associated with more severe PIGD symptoms, specific cognitive
domains were differentially related to distinct PIGD components, suggesting the
presence of multiple neural pathways contributing to associations between
cognition and PIGD symptoms in persons with PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25943529  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


16. Comput Struct Biotechnol J. 2015 Apr 8;13:265-72. doi:
10.1016/j.csbj.2015.03.008. eCollection 2015.

A2aR antagonists: Next generation checkpoint blockade for cancer immunotherapy.

Leone RD(1), Lo YC(1), Powell JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Research Center, Department of Oncology,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

The last several years have witnessed exciting progress in the development of
immunotherapy for the treatment of cancer. This has been due in great part to the
development of so-called checkpoint blockade. That is, antibodies that block
inhibitory receptors such as CTLA-4 and PD-1 and thus unleash antigen-specific
immune responses against tumors. It is clear that tumors evade the immune
response by usurping pathways that play a role in negatively regulating normal
immune responses. In this regard, adenosine in the immune microenvironment
leading to the activation of the A2a receptor has been shown to represent one
such negative feedback loop. Indeed, the tumor microenvironment has relatively
high concentrations of adenosine. To this end, blocking A2a receptor activation
has the potential to markedly enhance anti-tumor immunity in mouse models. This
review will present data demonstrating the ability of A2a receptor blockade to
enhance tumor vaccines, checkpoint blockade and adoptive T cell therapy. Also, as
several recent studies have demonstrated that under certain conditions A2a
receptor blockade can enhance tumor progression, we will also explore the
complexities of adenosine signaling in the immune response. Despite important
nuances to the A2a receptor pathway that require further elucidation, studies to 
date strongly support the development of A2a receptor antagonists (some of which 
have already been tested in phase III clinical trials for Parkinson Disease) as
novel modalities in the immunotherapy armamentarium.

PMCID: PMC4415113
PMID: 25941561  [PubMed]


17. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 23. pii: S1353-8020(15)00164-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.016. [Epub ahead of print]

Continuous non-invasive monitoring to detect covert autonomic dysfunction in
Parkinson's disease.

Hellman AM(1), Shah SP(2), Pawlowski SM(3), Duda JE(4), Morley JF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 
USA. (2)Parkinson's Disease Research, Education and Clinical Center, Philadelphia
VA Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of Neurology, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: shitalshah04@gmail.com. (3)Parkinson's Disease Research, Education and
Clinical Center, Philadelphia VA Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Parkinson's Disease Research, Education and Clinical Center, Philadelphia VA
Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of Neurology, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Lightheadedness on standing is a disabling symptom in Parkinson's
disease associated with orthostatic hypotension and is thought to represent
cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction. Traditional orthostatic blood pressures are
normal in some patients with lightheadedness and other measures of cardiovascular
dysautonomia can be insensitive. In this study, we used continuous non-invasive
arterial pressure monitoring to measure beat-to-beat changes in blood pressure
and heart rate on standing and during Valsalva as a potential marker of autonomic
dysfunction.
METHODS: Subjects had a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease with or without
documented orthostatic hypotension. Each participant underwent traditional
measurement of orthostatic blood pressure and heart rate as well as measurement
of beat-to-beat blood pressure and heart rate using continuous non-invasive
arterial pressure monitoring during Valsalva maneuver and in response to
standing. Orthostatic change in blood pressure and heart rate, and frequencies of
normal and abnormal blood pressure responses to Valsalva maneuver were analyzed.
RESULTS: In subjects without documented orthostatic hypotension, there was a
higher proportion of abnormal blood pressure responses to Valsalva in subjects
with symptoms of lightheadedness or dizziness upon standing compared to those
without symptoms (p = 0.03). Additionally, the proportion of abnormal blood
pressure responses during Valsalva observed in symptomatic subjects without
orthostatic hypotension was indistinguishable from those with documented
orthostatic hypotension (p = 0.7).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that continuous non-invasive arterial pressure 
monitoring may be more sensitive than traditional measurement of orthostatic
blood pressure to detect subtle cardiac dysautonomia in Parkinson's disease and
helpful in the diagnosis of unexplained lightheadedness.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25940998  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


18. FEMS Microbiol Rev. 2015 May 3. pii: fuv013. [Epub ahead of print]

The dormant blood microbiome in chronic, inflammatory diseases.

Potgieter M(1), Bester J(1), Kell DB(2), Pretorius E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Pretoria, 
Arcadia 0007, South Africa. (2)School of Chemistry and The Manchester Institute
of Biotechnology, The University of Manchester, 131, Princess St, Manchester M1
7DN, Lancs, UK dbk@manchester.ac.uk.

Blood in healthy organisms is seen as a 'sterile' environment: it lacks
proliferating microbes. Dormant or not-immediately-culturable forms are not
absent, however, as intracellular dormancy is well established. We highlight here
that a great many pathogens can survive in blood and inside erythrocytes.
'Non-culturability', reflected by discrepancies between plate counts and total
counts, is commonplace in environmental microbiology. It is overcome by improved 
culturing methods, and we asked how common this would be in blood. A number of
recent, sequence-based and ultramicroscopic studies have uncovered an authentic
blood microbiome in a number of non-communicable diseases. The chief origin of
these microbes is the gut microbiome (especially when it shifts composition to a 
pathogenic state, known as 'dysbiosis'). Another source is microbes translocated 
from the oral cavity. 'Dysbiosis' is also used to describe translocation of cells
into blood or other tissues. To avoid ambiguity, we here use the term
'atopobiosis' for microbes that appear in places other than their normal
location. Atopobiosis may contribute to the dynamics of a variety of inflammatory
diseases. Overall, it seems that many more chronic, non-communicable,
inflammatory diseases may have a microbial component than are presently
considered, and may be treatable using bactericidal antibiotics or vaccines.

© FEMS 2015.

PMID: 25940667  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


19. J Clin Nurs. 2015 May 4. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12819. [Epub ahead of print]

How do people live life successfully with Parkinson's disease?

Kang MY(1), Ellis-Hill C.

Author information: 
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK; School 
of Applied Social Sciences, University of Durham, Durham, UK.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The aim of this paper is to explore how people live life
successfully with Parkinson's disease and what contributed to the level of
success.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the level of success as defined by people with Parkinson's
disease. To find what contributed to the level of success.
BACKGROUND: Self-care support has gained importance for supporting people with
their chronic diseases including Parkinson's disease. Although self-care and life
adjustments can improve patients' general well-being, it is unclear which
approaches best facilitate positive adjustments to illness.
DESIGN: Semi-structured interviews with participants with Parkinson's disease.
METHODS: Eight participants living with Parkinson's disease for 2-16 years were
recruited from a Parkinson's disease voluntary group in the UK. Interviews
covered their perceived level of success and the factors which they perceived led
to that success. Thematic analysis was used to analyse the data.
RESULTS: Participants rated a high level of success in living with Parkinson's
disease with an average personal rating 75/100 despite facing difficulties.
Successful living was perceived to have taken place when people were either (1)
able to return to their usual state of health or (2) considered themselves to be 
stable within a new/readjusted state of health. Aspects which were perceived to
support positive psychosocial adjustment included a positive mindset,
determination, acceptance of new challenges and family support.
CONCLUSION: Maintaining usual life and physical ability is the major concern
among the people with Parkinson's disease. It would be helpful for health care
professionals to identify what constitutes a 'usual' life for that person and to 
support them to develop a positive mindset and acceptance of new challenges,
drawing on the determination of the person as well as any available family
support.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: In supporting self-care, it is helpful to gain
information about the subjective experience of living with Parkinson's disease
including their perceived level of success at the time and what led to that
perceived success for that person.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25939827  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


20. Neurol Sci. 2015 May 5. [Epub ahead of print]

Levodopa-carbidopa intrajejunal gel in advanced Parkinson disease with "on"
freezing of gait.

Cossu G(1), Ricchi V, Pilleri M, Mancini F, Murgia D, Ricchieri G, Mereu A, Melis
M, Antonini A.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Department, AOB "G. Brotzu" General Hospital, Cagliari, P.le Ricchi,
1, 09134, Cagliari, Italy, giovannicossu@aob.it.

Freezing of gait is a common and disabling disorder in advanced Parkinson's
disease (PD). The relationship with dopaminergic medication is complex and often 
non-linear, thus freezing may occur even when the core parkinsonian features
(tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia) appear optimally controlled. We evaluated the
effect of Levodopa-carbidopa intrajejunal gel in a group of seven non-demented PD
patients with prominent episodes of freezing refractory to adjustments of oral
therapy. Clinical assessments were performed in the best "on" state before
starting Levodopa-carbidopa intrajejunal gel, while patients were on their
standard oral Levodopa (O-LD), and infusion treatment. The main outcome measures 
were change in freezing of gait (FOG) Questionnaire and UPDRS motor score. FOG
Questionnaire and UPDRS subscores related to gait and postural stability
significantly improved during Levodopa-carbidopa intrajejunal gel infusion in all
patients compared to O-LD treatment. In four out of seven patients, the
Levodopa-carbidopa intrajejunal gel dose was equivalent or slightly higher but in
three patients was lower compared to O-LD dose recorded at baseline visit. In
selected patients, Levodopa-carbidopa intrajejunal gel may improve freezing
refractory to oral dopaminergic therapy.

PMID: 25939726  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


21. Hum Mutat. 2015 May 5. doi: 10.1002/humu.22808. [Epub ahead of print]

Structural and Functional Impact of Parkinson Disease-Associated Mutations in the
E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Parkin.

Fiesel FC(1), Caulfield TR, Moussaud-Lamodière EL, Dourado KO, Flores SC, Ross
OA, Springer W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Florida, USA.

Mutations in the PARKIN/PARK2 gene that result in loss-of-function of the
encoded, neuroprotective E3 ubiquitin ligase Parkin cause recessive, familial
early-onset Parkinson disease. As an increasing number of rare Parkin sequence
variants with unclear pathogenicity are identified, structure-function analyses
will be critical to determine their disease relevance. Depending on the specific 
amino acids affected, several distinct pathomechanisms can result in loss of
Parkin function. These include disruption of overall Parkin folding, decreased
solubility and protein aggregation. However pathogenic effects can also result
from misregulation of Parkin auto-inhibition and of its enzymatic functions. In
addition, interference of binding to co-enzymes, substrates and adaptor proteins 
can affect its catalytic activity too. Herein, we have performed a comprehensive 
structural and functional analysis of 21 PARK2 missense mutations distributed
across the individual protein domains. Using this combined approach we were able 
to pinpoint some of the pathogenic mechanisms of individual sequence variants.
Similar analyses will be critical in gaining a complete understanding of the
complex regulations and enzymatic functions of Parkin. These studies will not
only highlight the important residues, but will also help to develop novel
therapeutics aimed at activating and preserving an active, neuroprotective form
of Parkin This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25939424  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


22. Int J Toxicol. 2015 May 4. pii: 1091581815583561. [Epub ahead of print]

Groundwater Pesticide Levels and the Association With Parkinson Disease.

James KA(1), Hall DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Colorado, Denver, CO, USA
kathy.james@ucdenver.edu. (2)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush
University, Chicago, IL, USA.

It is unclear whether exposure to environmentally relevant levels of pesticides
in groundwater is associated with an increased risk of Parkinson disease (PD).
The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between PD and
pesticide levels in groundwater. This cross-sectional study included 332 971
Medicare beneficiaries, including 4207 prevalent cases of PD from the 2007
Colorado Medicare Beneficiary Database. Residential pesticide levels were
estimated from a spatial model based on 286 well water samples with atrazine,
simazine, alachlor, and metolachlor measurements. A logistic regression model
with known PD risk factors was used to assess the association between residential
groundwater pesticide levels and prevalent PD. We found that for every 1.0 µg/L
of pesticide in groundwater, the risk of PD increases by 3% (odds ratio = 1.03;
95% confidence interval: 1.02-1.04) while adjusting for age, race/ethnicity, and 
gender suggesting that higher age-standardized PD prevalence ratios are
associated with increasing levels of pesticides in groundwater.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25939349  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


23. J Am Chem Soc. 2015 May 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Copper binding to the N-terminally acetylated, naturally occurring form of
alpha-synuclein induces local helical folding.

Miotto MC, Valiente-Gabioud AA, Rossetti G, Zweckstetter M, Carloni P, Selenko P,
Griesinger C, Binolfi A, Fernandez CO.

Growing evidence supports a link between brain copper homeostasis, the formation 
of alpha-synuclein (AS)-copper complexes and the development of Parkinson´s
disease (PD). Recently it was demonstrated that the physiological form of AS is
N-terminally acetylated (AcAS). Here we used NMR spectroscopy to structurally
characterize the interaction between Cu(I) and AcAS. We found that the formation 
of an AcAS-Cu(I) complex at the N-terminal re-gion stabilizes local conformations
with α-helical secondary structure and restricted motility. Our work provides new
evidence into the metallo-biology of PD and opens new lines of research as the
formation of AcAS-Cu(I) complex might impact on AcAS membrane binding and
aggregation.

PMID: 25939020  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


24. PLoS One. 2015 May 4;10(5):e0124541. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0124541.
eCollection 2015.

Weight loss and impact on quality of life in Parkinson's disease.

Akbar U(1), He Y(2), Dai Y(3), Hack N(4), Malaty I(4), McFarland NR(4), Hess
C(4), Schmidt P(5), Wu S(3), Okun MS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, United
States of America. (2)Department of Mathematics, Clarkson University, Potsdam,
New York, United States of America. (3)Department of Biostatistics, University of
Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States of America. (4)Department of
Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(5)National Parkinson Foundation, Miami, Florida, United States of America.

INTRODUCTION: Weight loss is common in Parkinson's Disease (PD) and sometimes may
precede the diagnosis. Weight loss is associated with multiple factors but its
impact on health-related quality of life (HRQL) in PD remains unknown. We sought 
to investigate the factors associated with weight change and to quantify its
effect on HRQL.
METHODS: The National Parkinson Foundation Quality Improvement Initiative
(NPF-QII) data was used to analyze PD patients longitudinally between two visits,
separated by 12±6 months. Multiple linear regression analyses were used to assess
the associations between baseline covariates and body weight change per month,
and to evaluate whether, and to what degree, Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire
(PDQ-39) scores were affected.
RESULTS: A higher Hoehn & Yahr stage, higher number of comorbidities, older age, 
lower MOCA estimate, and higher rate of levodopa usage were observed in patients 
who lost weight. Multivariate regression analysis indicated that age and levodopa
usage were significantly associated with weight loss. Furthermore, monthly body
weight loss was significantly associated with HRQL decline in PD patients. Loss
of 1 lb (0.45 kg) per month was associated with a decline in QOL: an increase of 
0.5% in PDQ-39 Summary Index score (p=0.004), and 1.1% and 1.5% increases in the 
mobility and ADL dimensions, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Weight loss in PD is common and seems to correlate with worsened
HRQL. Awareness of factors associated with weight loss and its relation to HRQL
may help practitioners improve patient management and expectations.

PMID: 25938478  [PubMed - in process]


25. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 18. pii: S1353-8020(15)00154-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Alterations in the limbic/paralimbic cortices of Parkinson's disease patients
with hyposmia under resting-state functional MRI by regional homogeneity and
functional connectivity analysis.

Su M(1), Wang S(2), Fang W(3), Zhu Y(1), Li R(1), Sheng K(1), Zou D(1), Han Y(1),
Wang X(1), Cheng O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing 400016, China. (2)Department of Vascular Surgery, The First
Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing 400016, China. (4)Department of Neurology, The First
Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
Electronic address: chengoumei01@aliyun.com.

BACKGROUND: Hyposmia is a cardinal early symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD), but
the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying it remain unclear. Resting-state
functional MRI (RS-fMRI) demonstrates spontaneous neuronal activity. We
hypothesized that there would be alterations in the olfaction-related regions of 
the limbic/paralimbic cortices in PD patients with obvious hyposmia by RS-fMRI.
METHODS: We used the "Five Odors for Olfactory Detection Arrays" to test the
threshold of olfactory detection (TOD) for 54 PD patients and 22 age-matched
controls. Using the mean TOD of the control group, patients were subdivided into 
two groups: PD with obvious hyposmia (OH-PD, n = 38) and PD with none/less
obvious hyposmia (NOH-PD, n = 16). The regional brain activity of all subjects
was investigated using RS-fMRI, in combination with regional homogeneity (ReHo)
and functional connectivity (FC) analysis.
RESULTS: There were different ReHo values in the limbic/paralimbic cortices
between the OH-PD and NOH-PD groups. ReHo was significantly decreased in OH-PD
patients in parts of the traditional olfactory regions (e.g. the amygdala,
olfactory gyrus, orbital frontal cortex, parahippocampal gyrus and insula) and
some non-traditional olfactory centers (e.g. the rectal gyrus and superior
temporal pole), while increased in the left anterior/posterior cingulate cortex. 
FC analysis revealed decreased functional connectivity within the
limbic/paralimbic cortices, especially in regions with reduced ReHo in the OH-PD 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: PD with hyposmia is related to altered functional activity not only 
in the traditional olfactory center, but also in some non-traditional olfactory
regions of the limbic/paralimbic cortices.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25937615  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


26. Peptides. 2015 Apr 30. pii: S0196-9781(15)00138-2. doi:
10.1016/j.peptides.2015.04.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Nesfatin-1 antagonized rotenone-induced neurotoxicity in MES23.5 dopaminergic
cells.

Tan Z(1), Xu H(2), Shen X(1), Jiang H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Pathogenesis
and Prevention of Neurological Disorders and State Key Disciplines: Physiology,
Medical College of Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China. (2)Department of
Physiology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Pathogenesis and Prevention of 
Neurological Disorders and State Key Disciplines: Physiology, Medical College of 
Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China. Electronic address:
huamin102@163.com. (3)Department of Physiology, Shandong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Pathogenesis and Prevention of Neurological Disorders and State Key
Disciplines: Physiology, Medical College of Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, 
China. Electronic address: jhkyk@163.com.

Nesfatin-1 is a recently identified brain-gut peptide involved in feeding and
energy homeostasis. Recently, it has been proved that nesfatin-1 could exert its 
neuroprotective effect against subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced injury via
anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory properties. However, whether it has
neuroprotective effect on dopamine neurons is largely unknown. In the present
study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of nesfatin-1 on
rotenone-treated MES23.5 dopaminergic cells and illustrated the underlying
mechanisms. Our results showed that nesfatin-1 pretreatment could significantly
attenuate rotenone-induced cell loss. Further studies showed that the
neuroprotective effect of nesfatin-1 against rotenone was mediated by reversing
rotenone-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Nesfatin-1 could rescue
rotenone-induced mitochondrial transmembrane potential collapse and restore the
function of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I. In addition,
rotenone-induced release of cytochrome C from mitochondria, ROS production and
the subsequent caspase-3 activation were also depressed by nesfatin-1
pretreatment. Our data suggested that nesfatin-1 exerted its neuroprotective
effect on dopaminergic cells against rotenone by ameliorating mitochondrial
dysfunction and its anti-apoptotic property. This suggested that nesfatin-1 had
the potential to be considered as an aid for prevention of Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25937598  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


27. Alzheimers Dement. 2015 Apr 29. pii: S1552-5260(15)00122-3. doi:
10.1016/j.jalz.2014.12.009. [Epub ahead of print]

The role of TREM2 R47H as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal
lobar degeneration, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease.

Lill CM(1), Rengmark A(2), Pihlstrøm L(2), Fogh I(3), Shatunov A(3), Sleiman
PM(4), Wang LS(5), Liu T(6), Lassen CF(7), Meissner E(8), Alexopoulos P(9), Calvo
A(10), Chio A(11), Dizdar N(12), Faltraco F(13), Forsgren L(14), Kirchheiner
J(15), Kurz A(9), Larsen JP(16), Liebsch M(8), Linder J(14), Morrison KE(17),
Nissbrandt H(18), Otto M(15), Pahnke J(19), Partch A(5), Restagno G(20), Rujescu 
D(21), Schnack C(15), Shaw CE(3), Shaw PJ(22), Tumani H(15), Tysnes OB(23),
Valladares O(5), Silani V(24), van den Berg LH(25), van Rheenen W(25), Veldink
JH(25), Lindenberger U(26), Steinhagen-Thiessen E(27); SLAGEN Consortium, Teipel 
S(28), Perneczky R(29), Hakonarson H(4), Hampel H(30), von Arnim CA(15), Olsen
JH(7), Van Deerlin VM(5), Al-Chalabi A(3), Toft M(2), Ritz B(31), Bertram L(32).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vertebrate Genomics, Neuropsychiatric Genetics Group, Max Planck
Institute for Molecular Genetics, Berlin, Germany; Department of Neurology, Focus
Program Translational Neuroscience, University Medical Center of the Johannes
Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, Germany. Electronic address:
christina.lill@gmx.de. (2)Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital,
Oslo, Norway. (3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry,
King's College London, London, UK. (4)Center for Applied Genomics, Abramson
Research Center, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA; 
Division of Human Genetics, Abramson Research Center, The Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of Pediatrics, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (5)Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine at the University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (6)Department of Vertebrate Genomics,
Neuropsychiatric Genetics Group, Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics,
Berlin, Germany; Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Institute of Cancer Epidemiology, Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
(8)Department of Vertebrate Genomics, Neuropsychiatric Genetics Group, Max Planck
Institute for Molecular Genetics, Berlin, Germany. (9)Department of Psychiatry
and Psychotherapy, Technische Universität München, Munich, Germany. (10)Rita Levi
Montalcini Department of Neuroscience, ALS Center, University of Torino, Torino, 
Italy. (11)Rita Levi Montalcini Department of Neuroscience, ALS Center,
University of Torino, Torino, Italy; Neuroscience Institute of Turin, Turin,
Italy. (12)Department of Neurology, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, Goethe
University of Frankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany. (14)Department of Pharmacology and
Clinical Neuroscience, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. (15)Department of
Neurology, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany. (16)The Norwegian Centre for Movement
Disorders, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway. (17)School of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medical and Dental Sciences,
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK; Neurosciences Division, University
Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK. (18)Department of
Pharmacology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg,
Sweden. (19)Department of Neurology, Neurodegeneration Research Lab, University
of Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases
(DZNE), Magdeburg, Germany. (20)Department of Clinical Pathology, Molecular
Genetics Unit, Azienda Ospedaliera Città della Salute e della Scienza, Torino,
Italy. (21)Department of Psychiatry, University of Halle-Wittenberg, Halle,
Germany. (22)Department of Neuroscience, Sheffield Institute for Translational
Neuroscience (SITraN), Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health, University of
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. (23)Department of Neurology, Haukeland University
Hospital, Bergen, Norway; Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway. (24)Department of Neurology and Laboratory of Neuroscience, IRCCS
Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Milano, Italy; Department of Pathophysiology and
Tranplantation, "Dino Ferrari" Center, Università degli Studi di Milano, Milano, 
Italy. (25)Department of Neurology, Neuromuscular Diseases Brain Center Rudolf
Magnus, Netherlands ALS Center, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The
Netherlands. (26)Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin, Germany.
(27)Interdisciplinary Metabolic Center, Lipids Clinic, Charité University
Medicine, Berlin, Germany. (28)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases
(DZNE), Rostock, Germany; Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, University of
Rostock, Rostock, Germany. (29)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy,
Technische Universität München, Munich, Germany; Neuroepidemiology and Ageing
Research Unit, School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, The Imperial College
of Science, Technology, and Medicine, London, UK; West London Cognitive Disorders
Treatment and Research Unit, West London Mental Health Trust, London, UK. (30)AXA
Research Fund & UPMC Chair; Département de Neurologie, Sorbonne Universités,
Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Institut de la Mémoire et de la Maladie
d'Alzheimer & Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle épinière (ICM), Hôpital de la
Pitié-Salpétrière, Paris, France. (31)Department of Epidemiology and
Environmental Sciences, School of Public Health, University of California, Los
Angeles, CA, USA. (32)Department of Vertebrate Genomics, Neuropsychiatric
Genetics Group, Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Berlin, Germany;
Neuroepidemiology and Ageing Research Unit, School of Public Health, Faculty of
Medicine, The Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine, London, UK.

A rare variant in TREM2 (p.R47H, rs75932628) was recently reported to increase
the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and, subsequently, other neurodegenerative
diseases, i.e. frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS), and Parkinson's disease (PD). Here we comprehensively assessed
TREM2 rs75932628 for association with these diseases in a total of 19,940
previously untyped subjects of European descent. These data were combined with
those from 28 published data sets by meta-analysis. Furthermore, we tested
whether rs75932628 shows association with amyloid beta (Aβ42) and total-tau
protein levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 828 individuals with AD or
mild cognitive impairment. Our data show that rs75932628 is highly significantly 
associated with the risk of AD across 24,086 AD cases and 148,993 controls of
European descent (odds ratio or OR = 2.71, P = 4.67 × 10(-25)). No consistent
evidence for association was found between this marker and the risk of FTLD
(OR = 2.24, P = .0113 across 2673 cases/9283 controls), PD (OR = 1.36, P = .0767 
across 8311 cases/79,938 controls) and ALS (OR = 1.41, P = .198 across 5544
cases/7072 controls). Furthermore, carriers of the rs75932628 risk allele showed 
significantly increased levels of CSF-total-tau (P = .0110) but not Aβ42
suggesting that TREM2's role in AD may involve tau dysfunction.

Copyright © 2015 The Alzheimer's Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25936935  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


28. J Neurosci Methods. 2015 May 1. pii: S0165-0270(15)00172-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2015.04.013. [Epub ahead of print]

A comparative study of electrical potential sensors and Ag/AgCl electrodes for
characterising spontaneous and event related electroencephalagram signals.

Fatoorechi M(1), Parkinson J(2), Prance RJ(3), Prance H(3), Seth AK(4),
Schwartzman DJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Engineering and Design, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QT, 
UK. Electronic address: M.Fatoorechi@sussex.ac.uk. (2)Sackler Centre for
Consciousness Science, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QT, UK; School of
Psychology, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QT, UK. (3)Department of
Engineering and Design, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QT, UK. (4)Sackler
Centre for Consciousness Science, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QT, UK;
Department of Informatics, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QT, UK.

BACKGROUND: Electroencephalography (EEG) is still a widely used imaging tool that
combines high temporal resolution with a relatively low cost. Ag/AgCl metal
electrodes have been the gold standard for non-invasively monitoring electrical
brain activity. Although reliable, these electrodes have multiple drawbacks: they
suffer from noise, such as offset potential drift, and usability issues, for
example, difficult skin preparation and cross-coupling of adjacent electrodes.
NEW METHOD: In order to tackle these issues a prototype Electric Potential Sensor
(EPS) device based on an auto-zero operational amplifier was developed and
evaluated. The EPS is a novel active ultrahigh impedance capacitively coupled
sensor. The absence of 1/f noise makes the EPS ideal for use with signal
frequencies of ∼10Hz or less. A comprehensive study was undertaken to compare
neural signals recorded by the EPS with a standard commercial EEG system.
RESULTS: Quantitatively, highly similar signals were observed between the EPS and
EEG sensors for both free running and evoked brain activity with cross
correlations of higher than 0.9 between the EPS and a standard benchmark EEG
system.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD(S): These studies comprised measurements of both 
free running EEG and Event Related Potentials (ERPs) from a commercial EEG system
and EPS.
CONCLUSIONS: The EPS provides a promising alternative with many added benefits
compared to standard EEG sensors, including reduced setup time and elimination of
sensor cross-coupling. In the future the scalability of the EPS will allow the
implementation of a whole head ultra-dense EPS array.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25936849  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


29. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 22. pii: S1353-8020(15)00161-3. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.013. [Epub ahead of print]

The closing-in phenomenon in Parkinson's disease.

De Lucia N(1), Trojano L(2), Vitale C(3), Grossi D(4), Barone P(5), Santangelo
G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Second University of
Naples, Caserta, Italy. Electronic address: natascia.delucia@unina2.it.
(2)Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Second University of
Naples, Caserta, Italy; Salvatore Maugeri Foundation, IRCCS Institute of Telese
Terme, (BN), Italy. Electronic address: luigi.trojano@unina2.it. (3)IDC
Hermitage-Capodimonte, Naples, Italy; University of Naples Parthenope, Naples,
Italy. Electronic address: cavit69@hotmail.com. (4)Neuropsychology Laboratory,
Department of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Caserta, Italy. Electronic
address: dario.grossi@unina2.it. (5)Department of Medicine and Surgery,
Neurodegenerative Diseases Center, University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy.
Electronic address: pbarone@unisa.it. (6)Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department
of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Caserta, Italy; IDC
Hermitage-Capodimonte, Naples, Italy. Electronic address:
gabriella.santangelo@unina2.it.

INTRODUCTION: Closing-in (CI) is a peculiar phenomenon consisting in the tendency
to copy drawings close to or superimposed on a model. Recent findings showed that
CI can be associated with frontal/executive dysfunctions, likely determining a
failure in high-level monitoring of attention-action circuits. CI has been often 
observed in demented patients, but scarce data are available about CI in patients
with Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we detected occurrence of CI
and investigated the cognitive processes associated to this phenomenon in a large
sample of non-demented PD patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed graphic reproductions in a copying task of
100 non-demented PD patients who had also completed cognitive, behavioural, and
motor screening assessment.
RESULTS: CI phenomenon occurred in 50/100 non-demented PD patients (50%; 118/700 
drawings). Among these patients, 46/50 patients copied drawings close to the
model (near-CI), 2/50 patients superimposed their copy directly on the model
(adherent-CI), whereas 2/50 patients showed both near-and adherent-CI. MANOVA
showed that non-demented PD patients with CI showed more severe impairment on
frontal/executive functions and visuo-constructional abilities than non-demented 
PD patients without CI. However, the logistic regression model revealed that
occurrence of CI was significantly associated to lower scores on
frontal/executive tasks only.
CONCLUSION: CI can be found in a large proportion of non-demented PD patients,
and it is related to frontal monitoring defects that could hamper inhibition of
action and attention toward a model.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25936264  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


30. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 17. pii: S0022-510X(15)00215-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jns.2015.04.018. [Epub ahead of print]

Chronic manganism: A long-term follow-up study with a new dopamine terminal
biomarker of (18)F-FP-(+)-DTBZ ((18)F-AV-133) brain PET scan.

Huang CY(1), Liu CH(2), Tsao E(3), Hsieh CJ(4), Weng YH(5), Hsiao IT(4), Yen
TC(4), Lin KJ(4), Huang CC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan;
College of Pharmacy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Department of 
Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of
Clinical Medical Sciences, Division of Medical Education, College of Medicine,
Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. (3)Department of Family Medicine, Chang
Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Department of Environmental and
Occupational Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan. (4)Molecular
Imaging Center and Nuclear Medicine, Chang Gung University, Chang Gung Memorial
Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Healthy Aging Research Center Medical Imaging and
Radiological Sciences, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan,
Taiwan. (5)Department of Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan,
Taiwan; Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University,
Taoyuan, Taiwan. (6)Department of Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital,
Taoyuan, Taiwan; Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chang Gung
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Electronic address: cch0537@adm.cgmh.org.tw.

Recent experimental studies revealed that dopamine neuron dysfunction in chronic 
manganism may be due to a reduced capacity of dopamine release in the striatum.
The findings imposed further difficulty in the differential diagnosis between
manganism and IPD. We conducted a long-term clinical follow-up study of 4
manganism patients, applying a new tracer
(18)F-9-fluoropropyl-(+)-dihydrotetrabenazine ((18)F-AV-133) with positron
emission tomography (PET). Twenty age-matched subjects including 4 manganism
patients, 8 idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients, and 8 healthy controls
were enrolled for comparison. Volumes of interest of the bilateral putamen,
caudate nuclei and occipital cortex as the reference region were delineated from 
individual magnetic resonance images. The clinical features of the manganism
patients still progressed, with increased scores on the Unified Parkinson Disease
Rating Scale. The (18)F-AV-133 uptake in the IPD patients decreased at the
bilateral striatum, compared with the healthy controls. In the manganism
patients, there was no decreased uptake of radioactivity involving the bilateral 
striatum, except Patient 4, who had a stroke with decreased uptake in the right
posterior putamen. The (18)F-AV-133 PET finding reveals that nigrostriatum
neurons are not degenerated in chronic manganism and can provide a useful
neuroimage biomarker in the differential diagnosis.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25936253  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


31. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 May 2. pii: jnnp-2015-310327. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2015-310327. [Epub ahead of print]

Chronological changes of 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy and clinical features 
of Parkinson's disease.

Tsujikawa K(1), Hasegawa Y(1), Yokoi S(2), Yasui K(1), Nanbu I(3), Yanagi T(4),
Takahashi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Nagoya Daini Red Cross Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan. (3)Department of Radiology, Nagoya Daini Red Cross Hospital,
Nagoya, Japan. (4)Obu Dementia Care Research and Training Center, Aichi, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate chronological changes of
(123)I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy and its relation
to clinical features in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and to
characterise patients with PD with normal or mildly low MIBG uptakes at their
early stages.
METHODS: The participants were 70 patients with PD who underwent (123)I-MIBG
myocardial scintigraphy twice or more. A cluster analysis was performed using
parameters calculated from heart to mediastinum (H/M) ratio and washout ratio
(WR).
RESULTS: At baseline, the mean early H/M ratio (H/M(E)), delayed H/M ratio
(H/M(D)) and WR were 1.83, 1.69 and 41.7%, respectively. After a mean interval of
3.0 years, follow-up studies showed significantly declined H/M(E) (1.69,
p<0.001), declined H/M(D) (1.47, p<0.001) and enhanced WR (43.8%, p=0.007). Our
longitudinal observations revealed that there existed heterogeneous changes in
MIBG uptakes among patients. The cluster analysis classified the patients into
two subgroups: 42 patients with markedly low MIBG uptakes at baseline (group A)
and 28 patients with normal or mildly low MIBG uptakes at baseline (group B).
Group B showed a significantly higher ratio of females, younger age at onset,
lower Hoehn and Yahr stage and less demented, compared with group A.
CONCLUSIONS: Follow-up studies of MIBG divided the patients with PD into two
major subgroups. A subgroup of patients with PD with normal or mildly low MIBG
uptakes at the early stages of illness was characterised by female-dominant,
young onset, slow progression in motor dysfunctions and preserved cognitive
function.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: 1033.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25935888  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


32. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 23. pii: S1353-8020(15)00162-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Fast vergence eye movements are disrupted in Parkinson's disease: A
video-oculography study.

Hanuška J(1), Bonnet C(2), Rusz J(3), Sieger T(4), Jech R(5), Rivaud-Péchoux
S(6), Vidailhet M(7), Gaymard B(6), Růžička E(8).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Neurology and Center of Clinical Neuroscience, Charles University in 
Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine and General University Hospital, Prague, Czech
Republic; Dept. of Neurosurgery, Hospital Na Homolce, Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Dept. of Neurology and Center of Clinical Neuroscience, Charles University in 
Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine and General University Hospital, Prague, Czech
Republic; AP HP, Neurology Department, Pitié Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(3)Dept. of Neurology and Center of Clinical Neuroscience, Charles University in 
Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine and General University Hospital, Prague, Czech
Republic; Dept. of Circuit Theory, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Czech
Technical University, Prague, Czech Republic. (4)Dept. of Neurology and Center of
Clinical Neuroscience, Charles University in Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine and 
General University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic; Dept. of Cybernetics,
Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Czech Technical University, Prague, Czech
Republic. (5)Dept. of Neurology and Center of Clinical Neuroscience, Charles
University in Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine and General University Hospital,
Prague, Czech Republic. (6)CRICM UPMC/INSERM UMR_S975, CNRS UMR7225, ICM,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France; Pierre et Marie Curie Paris-6
University, Paris, France. (7)AP HP, Neurology Department, Pitié Salpêtrière
Hospital, Paris, France; CRICM UPMC/INSERM UMR_S975, CNRS UMR7225, ICM,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France; Pierre et Marie Curie Paris-6
University, Paris, France. (8)Dept. of Neurology and Center of Clinical
Neuroscience, Charles University in Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine and General
University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic. Electronic address:
eruzi@lf1.cuni.cz.

BACKGROUND: Blurred near vision is a common non-motor symptom in patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD), however detailed characterization of vergence eye
movements (VEM) is lacking.
METHODS: Convergence and divergence were examined in 18 patients with PD and 18
control subjects using infrared video-oculography. VEM metrics analyzed included 
latency, velocity and accuracy, in vertical and horizontal planes.
RESULTS: The latency of convergence and divergence was significantly increased in
PD subjects. Additionally, divergence was slow and hypometric, while other
convergence metrics were similar to controls.
CONCLUSION: We provide evidence in favor of disrupted VEM in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25935708  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


33. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Apr 28. pii: S0166-4328(15)00286-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bbr.2015.04.037. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterization of long-term motor deficits in the 6-OHDA model of Parkinson's
disease in the common marmoset.

Santana M(1), Palmér T(2), Simplício H(3), Fuentes R(4), Petersson P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Macaíba
59280-000, Brazil; Psychobiology Program, Federal Univ. of Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, 59078-970, Brazil; Bacharelado em Ciências Biológicas, Instituto de
Ciências e Tecnologia das Águas, Universidade Federal do Oeste do Pará (UFOPA),
Santarém, Pará, Brazil. (2)Integrative Neurophysiology and Neurotechnology,
Neuronano Research Center, Department of Experimental Medical Sciences, Lund
University, BMC F10, S-221 84 Lund, Sweden; Mathematics LTH Centre for
Mathematical Sciences, Faculty of Engineering, Lund University, S-22184 Lund,
Sweden. (3)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Macaíba
59280-000, Brazil; State Univ. of Rio Grande do Norte, Mossoró, 59610-210,
Brazil. (4)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Macaíba
59280-000, Brazil; Programa de Fisiologa y Biofísica, Instituto de Ciencias
Biomédicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Independencia 1027,
Santiago, Chile. (5)Integrative Neurophysiology and Neurotechnology, Neuronano
Research Center, Department of Experimental Medical Sciences, Lund University,
BMC F10, S-221 84 Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: Per.Petersson@med.lu.se.

Research aimed at developing new therapies for Parkinson's disease (PD)
critically depend on valid animal models of the disease that allows for repeated 
testing of motor disabilities over extended time periods. We here present an
extensive characterization of a wide range of motor symptoms in the 6-OHDA
marmoset model of PD when tested over several months. The severity of motor
deficits was quantified in two ways: (i) through manual scoring protocols
appropriately adapted to include species specific motor behavior and (ii) using
automated quantitative motion tracking based on image processing of the digital
video recordings. We show that the automated methods allow for rapid and reliable
characterization of motor dysfunctions, thus complementing the manual scoring
procedures, and that robust motor symptoms lasting for several months could be
induced when using a two-stage neurotoxic lesioning procedure involving one
hemisphere at a time. This non-human primate model of PD should therefore be well
suited for long-term evaluation of novel therapies for treatment of PD.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25934488  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


34. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Apr 30. pii: jnnp-2014-310189. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-310189. [Epub ahead of print]

Postoperative apathy can neutralise benefits in quality of life after subthalamic
stimulation for Parkinson's disease.

Martinez-Fernandez R(1), Pelissier P(2), Quesada JL(3), Klinger H(4), Lhommée
E(2), Schmitt E(2), Fraix V(2), Chabardes S(5), Mertens P(6), Castrioto A(2),
Kistner A(2), Broussolle E(4), Pollak P(7), Thobois S(4), Krack P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, CHU de
Grenoble, Université de Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France INSERM, U386, Grenoble
Institut de Neurosciences, Grenoble, France CINAC-HM Puerta del Sur, CEU-San
Pablo University, Madrid, Spain. (2)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of
Psychiatry and Neurology, CHU de Grenoble, Université de Grenoble Alpes,
Grenoble, France INSERM, U386, Grenoble Institut de Neurosciences, Grenoble,
France. (3)Centre d'Investigation Clinique, CHU de Grenoble, Univesité Joseph
Fourier, Grenoble, France Direction de la recherche clinique, Département
scientifique, CHU Grenoble, Grenoble, France. (4)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Hôpital
Neurologique, Neurologie C, Lyon, France Faculté de Médecine et de Maïeutique
Lyon Sud Charles Mérieux, Université de Lyon 1, Lyon, France CNRS, UMR 5229,
Centre de Neurosciences Cognitives, Bron, France. (5)Movement Disorders Unit,
Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, CHU de Grenoble, Université de Grenoble
Alpes, Grenoble, France INSERM, U386, Grenoble Institut de Neurosciences,
Grenoble, France Deparment of Neurosurgery, CHU de Grenoble, Grenoble, France.
(6)Faculté de Médecine et de Maïeutique Lyon Sud Charles Mérieux, Université de
Lyon 1, Lyon, France Hospices Civils de Lyon, Hôpital Neurologique,
Neurochirurgie A, Lyon, France. (7)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of
Psychiatry and Neurology, CHU de Grenoble, Université de Grenoble Alpes,
Grenoble, France INSERM, U386, Grenoble Institut de Neurosciences, Grenoble,
France Service de Neurologie, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Geneva,
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) improves motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease, leading to improvement in health-related quality
of life (HRQoL). However, an excessive decrease in dopaminergic medication can
lead to a withdrawal syndrome with apathy as the predominant feature. The present
study aims to assess the impact of postoperative apathy on HRQoL.
METHODS: A cohort of 88 patients who underwent STN-DBS was divided into two
groups, those who were apathetic at 1 year and those who were not, as measured by
the Starkstein scale. HRQoL was assessed using the Parkinson's disease
questionnaire 39 (PDQ-39) and was compared between the two groups. We also
compared activities of daily living, motor improvement and motor complications
(Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, UPDRS), depression and anxiety, as
well as cognition and drug dosages. Baseline characteristics and postoperative
complications were recorded.
RESULTS: One year after surgery, 27.1% of patients suffered from apathy. While
motor improvement was significant and equivalent in both the apathy (-40.4% of
UPDRS motor score) and non-apathy groups (-48.6%), the PDQ-39 score did not
improve in the apathy group (-5.5%; p=0.464), whereas it improved significantly
(-36.7%; p≤0.001) in the non-apathy group. Change in apathy scores correlated
significantly with change in HRQoL scores (r=0.278, p=0.009). Depression and
anxiety scores remained unchanged from baseline in the apathy group (p=0.409,
p=0.075), while they improved significantly in patients without apathy (p=0.006, 
p≤0.001). A significant correlation was found between changes in apathy and
depression (r=0.594, p≤0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The development of apathy after STN-DBS can cancel out the benefits 
of motor improvement in terms of HRQoL. Systematic evaluation and management of
apathy occurring after subthalamic stimulation appears mandatory.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25934016  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


35. Pharmacol Rep. 2015 Jun;67(3):636-646. doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2014.12.017. Epub
2015 Jan 14.

Role of mTOR inhibitors in epilepsy treatment.

Sadowski K(1), Kotulska-Jóźwiak K(2), Jóźwiak S(2).

Author information: 
(1)"Living with Parkinson disease" Foundation, Warszawa, Poland. Electronic
address: sadowski.ks@gmail.com. (2)Department of Neurology and Epileptology, The 
Children's Memorial Health Institute, Warszawa, Poland.

In spite of the fact, that subsequent new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are being
introduced into clinical practice, the percentage of drug-resistant epilepsy
cases remains stable. Although a substantial progress has been made in safety
profile of antiepileptic drugs, currently available substances have not been
unambiguously proven to display disease-modifying effect in epilepsy and their
mechanisms of action influence mainly on the end-stage phase of epileptogenesis, 
namely seizures. Prevention of epileptogenesis requires new generation of drugs
modulating molecular pathways engaged in epileptogenesis processes. The mammalian
target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway is involved in highly epileptogenic
conditions, such as tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and represents a reasonable 
target for antiepileptogenic interventions. In animal models of TSC mTOR
inhibitors turned out to prevent the development of epilepsy and reduce
underlying brain abnormalities. Accumulating evidence from animal studies suggest
the role of mTOR pathway in acquired forms of epilepsy. Preliminary clinical
studies with patients affected by TSC demonstrated seizure reduction and
potential disease-modifying effect of mTOR inhibitors. Further studies will
determine the place for mTOR inhibitors in the treatment of patients with TSC as 
well as its potential antiepileptogenic effect in other types of genetic and
acquired epilepsies. This review presents current knowledge of mTOR pathway
physiology and pathology in the brain, as well as potential clinical use of its
inhibitors.

Copyright © 2015 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. Published
by Elsevier Urban & Partner Sp. z o.o. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25933981  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


36. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2015 Apr 30. [Epub ahead of print]

TDP-43 Pathology Progression Along the Olfactory Pathway as a Possible Substrate 
for Olfactory Impairment in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Takeda T(1), Iijima M, Uchihara T, Ohashi T, Seilhean D, Duyckaerts C, Uchiyama
S.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology, Tokyo Women's Medical University (TT, MI,
SU); Laboratory of Structural Neuropathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of
Medical Science (TT, TU); Department of Neurology, Tokyo Women's Medical
University Yachiyo Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan (TO); and Raymond Escourolle
Laboratory of Neuropathology, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, La Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France (TT, DS, CD).

Odor impairment and its relationship with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)
pathology in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have not been
fully elucidated. We performed the odor stick identification test for Japanese
(OSIT-J) in 18 ALS patients and in 18 controls. The score was significantly
decreased (6.6 ± 2.7) in the patients versus the controls (9.2 ± 2.4) (U = 77.0, 
p = 0.007). This decrement of the OSIT-J score paralleled the cognitive decline. 
We then studied samples from a series of 42 postmortem ALS cases. Quantitative
analyses demonstrated that TDP-43-positive inclusions were most frequent in the
hippocampus and least abundant in the olfactory bulb and were of intermediate
density in the primary olfactory cortex. This centrifugal gradient suggests that 
TDP-43 pathology starts in the hippocampus, spreads into the primary olfactory
center, and finally reaches the olfactory bulb. TDP-43, tau, and α-synuclein
accumulations appeared to be independent. These observations suggest that
impaired odor discrimination in ALS patients may be related to TDP-43-positive
lesions affecting predominantly secondary olfactory centers (especially the
hippocampus) in contrast to decreased odor sensitivity in Parkinson disease in
which α-synuclein pathology mainly involves the peripheral region (i.e.,
olfactory bulb). We suggest that detectable odor impairments in ALS patients are 
useful for predicting the presence of TDP-43 pathology in the extramotor system.

PMID: 25933387  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


37. J Neurosurg. 2015 May 1:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Changes in glutamate receptors in dyskinetic parkinsonian monkeys after
unilateral subthalamotomy.

Jourdain VA(1), Morin N, Grégoire L, Morissette M, Di Paolo T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Unit, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Québec; and.

OBJECT Unilateral subthalamotomy is a surgical procedure that may be used to
alleviate disabling levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) in patients with
Parkinson disease (PD). However, the mechanisms involved in LID remain largely
unknown. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is the sole glutamatergic nucleus within
the basal ganglia, and its lesion may produce changes in glutamate receptors in
various areas of the basal ganglia. The authors aimed to investigate the
biochemical changes in glutamate receptors in striatal and pallidal regions of
the basal ganglia after lesion of the STN in parkinsonian macaque monkeys.
METHODS The authors treated 12 female ovariectomized monkeys with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to induce PD-like symptoms,
treated 8 of these animals with 3,4-dihydroxy-l-phenylalanine (L-DOPA; levodopa) 
to induce LID, and performed unilateral subthalamotomy in 4 of these 8 monkeys.
Four additional monkeys were treated with saline only and were used as controls. 
The MPTP monkeys had previously been shown to respond behaviorally to lower doses
of levodopa after the STN lesion. Autoradiography of slices from postmortem brain
tissues was used to visualize changes in the specific binding of striatal and
pallidal ionotropic glutamate receptors (that is, of the α-amino-3-hydroxy
5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate [AMPA] and N-methyl-d-aspartate [NMDA] NR1/NR2B
subunit receptors) and of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors (that is,
mGlu2/3 and mGlu5 receptors). The specific binding and distribution of glutamate 
receptors in the basal ganglia of the levodopa-treated, STN-lesioned MPTP monkeys
were compared with those in the saline-treated control monkeys and in the
saline-treated and levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys. RESULTS The autoradiographic
results indicated that none of the pharmacological and surgical treatments
produced changes in the specific binding of AMPA receptors in the basal ganglia. 
Levodopa treatment increased the specific binding of NMDA receptors in the basal 
ganglia. Subthalamotomy reversed these increases in the striatum, but in the
globus pallidus (GP), the subthalamotomy reversed these increases only
contralaterally. Levodopa treatment reversed MPTP-induced increases in mGlu2/3
receptors only in the GP. mGlu2/3 receptor-specific binding in the striatum and
GP decreased bilaterally in the levodopa-treated, STN-lesioned MPTP monkeys
compared with the other 3 groups. Compared with mGlu5 receptor-specific binding
in the control monkeys, that of the levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys increased in
the dorsal putamen and remained unchanged in the caudate nucleus and in the GP.
CONCLUSIONS These results implicate glutamate receptors in the previously
observed benefits of unilateral subthalamotomy to improve motor control.

PMID: 25932606  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


38. J Neurosurg. 2015 May 1:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Continuous intraputamenal convection-enhanced delivery in adult rhesus macaques.

Fan X(1), Nelson BD, Ai Y, Stiles DK, Gash DM, Hardy PA, Zhang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Xuan Wu Hospital, Capital Medical University,
Beijing, China;

OBJECT Assessing the safety and feasibility of chronic delivery of compounds to
the brain using convection-enhanced delivery (CED) is important for the further
development of this important therapeutic technology. The objective of this study
was to follow and model the distribution of a compound delivered by CED into the 
putamen of rhesus monkeys. METHODS The authors sequentially implanted catheters
into 4 sites spanning the left and right putamen in each of 6 rhesus monkeys. The
catheters were connected to implanted pumps, which were programmed to deliver a
5-mM solution of the MRI contrast agent Gd-DTPA at 0.1 μl/minute for 7 days and
0.3 μl/minute for an additional 7 days. The animals were followed for 28 days per
implant cycle during which they were periodically examined with MRI. RESULTS All 
animals survived the 4 surgeries with no deficits in behavior. Compared with
acute infusion, the volume of distribution (Vd) increased 2-fold with 7 days of
chronic infusion. Increasing the flow rate 3-fold over the next week increased
the Vd an additional 3-fold. Following withdrawal of the compound, the half-life 
of Gd-DTPA in the brain was estimated as 3.1 days based on first-order
pharmacokinetics. Histological assessment of the brain showed minimal tissue
damage limited to the insertion site. CONCLUSIONS These results demonstrate
several important features in the development of a chronically implanted pump and
catheter system: 1) the ability to place catheters accurately in a predetermined 
target; 2) the ability to deliver compounds in a chronic fashion to the putamen; 
and 3) the use of MRI and MR visible tracers to follow the evolution of the
infusion volume over time.

PMID: 25932605  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


39. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2015 Apr;57(4):303-6. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2015.57.4.303.
Epub 2015 Apr 24.

Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic and pedunculopontine nucleus in a
patient with Parkinson's disease.

Liu HG(1), Zhang K(1), Yang AC(1), Zhang JG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing, China. (2)Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. ; Department of
Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery, Beijing Neurosurgical Institute,
Beijing, China.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is a novel
therapy developed to treat Parkinson's disease. We report a patient who underwent
bilateral DBS of the PPN and subthalamic nucleus (STN). He suffered from freezing
of gait (FOG), bradykinesia, rigidity and mild tremors. The patient underwent
bilateral DBS of the PPN and STN. We compared the benefits of PPN-DBS and STN-DBS
using motor and gait subscores. The PPN-DBS provided modest improvements in the
gait disorder and freezing episodes, while the STN-DBS failed to improve the
dominant problems. This special case suggests that PPN-DBS may have a unique role
in ameliorating the locomotor symptoms and has the potential to provide
improvement in FOG.

PMCID: PMC4414778
PMID: 25932301  [PubMed]


40. Front Psychol. 2015 Apr 16;6:463. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.00463. eCollection
2015.

Embodied cognition of aging.

Vallet GT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche, Institut Universitaire de Gériatrie de Montréal Montréal,
QC, Canada ; Department of Psychology, Université de Montréal Montréal, QC,
Canada.

Embodiment is revolutionizing the way we consider cognition by incorporating the 
influence of our body and of the current context within cognitive processing. A
growing number of studies which support this view of cognition in young adults
stands in stark contrast with the lack of evidence in favor of this view in the
field of normal aging and neurocognitive disorders. Nonetheless, the validation
of embodiment assumptions on the whole spectrum of cognition is a mandatory step 
in order for embodied cognition theories to become theories of human cognition.
More pragmatically, aging populations represent a perfect target to test embodied
cognition theories due to concomitant changes in sensory, motor and cognitive
functioning that occur in aging, since these theories predict direct interactions
between them. Finally, the new perspectives on cognition provided by these
theories might also open new research avenues and new clinical applications in
the field of aging. The present article aims at showing the value and interest to
explore embodiment in normal and abnormal aging as well as introducing some
potential theoretical and clinical applications.

PMCID: PMC4399201
PMID: 25932019  [PubMed]


41. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Apr 27. pii: S0969-9961(15)00154-0. doi:
10.1016/j.nbd.2015.04.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of impaired membrane interactions on α-synuclein aggregation and
neurotoxicity.

Ysselstein D(1), Joshi M(1), Mishra V(1), Griggs AM(1), Asiago JM(1), McCabe
GP(2), Stanciu LA(3), Post CB(1), Rochet JC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, IN, USA. (2)Department of Statistics, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, IN, USA. (3)Department of Materials Engineering,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA. (4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry 
and Molecular Pharmacology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.
Electronic address: jrochet@purdue.edu.

The post-mortem brains of individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) and other
synucleinopathy disorders are characterized by the presence of aggregated forms
of the presynaptic protein α-synuclein (aSyn). Understanding the molecular
mechanism of aSyn aggregation is essential for the development of neuroprotective
strategies to treat these diseases. In this study, we examined how interactions
between aSyn and phospholipid vesicles influence the protein's aggregation and
toxicity to dopaminergic neurons. Two-dimensional NMR data revealed that two
familial aSyn mutants, A30P and G51D, populated an exposed, membrane-bound
conformer in which the central hydrophobic region was dissociated from the
bilayer to a greater extent than in the case of wild-type aSyn. A30P and G51D had
a greater propensity to undergo membrane-induced aggregation and elicited greater
toxicity to primary dopaminergic neurons compared to the wild-type protein. In
contrast, the non-familial aSyn mutant A29E exhibited a weak propensity to
aggregate in the presence of phospholipid vesicles or to elicit neurotoxicity,
despite adopting a relatively exposed membrane-bound conformation. Our findings
suggest that the aggregation of exposed, membrane-bound aSyn conformers plays a
key role in the protein's neurotoxicity in PD and other synucleinopathy
disorders.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25931201  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


42. Proteomics. 2015 May 1. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201500059. [Epub ahead of print]

Proteomic analysis of host brain components that bind to infectious particles in 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

Kipkorir T(1), Colangelo CM, Manuelidis L.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University Medical School, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, CT, 06510, USA.

Transmissible encephalopathies (TSEs), such as CJD and scrapie, are caused by
infectious agents that provoke strain-specific patterns of disease. Misfolded
host prion protein (PrP-res amyloid) is believed to be the causal infectious
agent. However, particles that are stripped of PrP retain both high infectivity
and viral proteins not detectable in uninfected mouse controls. We here detail
host proteins bound with FU-CJD infectious brain particles by proteomic analysis.
More than 98 proteins were differentially regulated, and 56 FU-CJD exclusive
proteins were revealed after PrP, GFAP, C1q, ApoE and other late pathologic
response proteins were removed. Stripped FU-CJD particles revealed HSC70 (144x
the uninfected control), cyclophilin B, an FU-CJD exclusive protein required by
many viruses, and early endosome-membrane pathways known to facilitate viral
processing, replication, and spread. Synaptosomal elements including synapsin-2
(at 33x) and AP180 (a major FU-CJD exclusive protein) paralleled the known
ultrastructural location of 25nm virus-like TSE particles and infectivity in
synapses. Proteins without apparent viral or neurodegenerative links (copine-3), 
and others involved in viral-induced protein misfolding and aggregation, were
also identified. Human sCJD brain particles contained 146 exclusive proteins, and
heat shock, synaptic and viral pathways were again prominent, in addition to
Alzheimer (AD), Parkinson, and Huntington aggregation proteins. Host proteins
that bind TSE infectious particles can prevent host immune recognition and
contribute to prolonged cross-species transmissions (the species barrier). Our
infectious particle strategy, which reduces background sequences by >99%,
emphasizes host targets for new therapeutic initiatives. Such therapies can
simultaneously subvert common pathways of neurodegeneration This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25930988  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


43. Neurol Sci. 2015 May 1. [Epub ahead of print]

The non-motor heterogeneity of Parkinson disease.

Erro R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, Institute of
Neurology, University College London (UCL), London, UK, erro.roberto@gmail.com.

PMID: 25930742  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


44. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 May;94(17):e782. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000782.

Prevalence and risk factors of cognitive impairment in Parkinson disease: a
population-based case-control study in taiwan.

Huang YC(1), Wu ST, Lin JJ, Lin CC, Kao CH.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (Y-CH), Taoyuan General Hospital, Ministry of
Health and Welfare, Executive Yuan; Department of Bioindustry Technology (Y-CH,
S-TW), Dayeh University, Chang Hua; Department of Neurology (J-JL), Chushang
Show-Chwan Hospital, Nantou; Department of Neurology (J-JL), Chung-Shan Medical
University Hospital; Management Office for Health Data (C-CL), China Medical
University Hospital; College of Medicine (C-CL); Graduate Institute of Clinical
Medical Science (C-HK), China Medical University; and Department of Nuclear
Medicine and PET Center (C-HK), China Medical University Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the Parkinson disease (PD) prevalence of
cognitive impairment in Taiwan.The case-control study consisted of 6177 cognitive
impairment patients and 24,708 noncognitive impairment as controls for the period
of 2006 to 2010 and both of the groups aged ≥50 years. The multivariable logistic
regression analyses were used to estimate the odds ratio (OR) for cognitive
impairment, and the 95% confidence intervals (CIs) among patients with PD were
compared with those of non-PD patients.PD (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] is 3.07, 95%
CI 2.76-3.41) is the one of the most contributed risk factors for cognitive
impairment. Besides, we found a remarkable result of the diagnosed cognitive
impairment of PD that was found highest in the first 6 months (aOR 11.98, 95% CI 
8.51-16.86) and then decrease the incident year by year. The PD prevalence in a
patient with cognitive impairment in our data present is 12.1% lower than those
with truly dementia published previously and documented by western studies.We
found a remarkable result of the diagnosed cognitive impairment of PD that was
found highest in the first 6 months and then decrease the incident year by year.

PMID: 25929923  [PubMed - in process]


45. J Neurol. 2015 May 1. [Epub ahead of print]

Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus modulates reward processing and
action selection in Parkinson patients.

Wagenbreth C(1), Zaehle T, Galazky I, Voges J, Guitart-Masip M, Heinze HJ, Düzel 
E.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology and Stereotactic Neurosurgery, Otto-von-Guericke
University Magdeburg, 39120, Magdeburg, Germany, caroline.wagenbreth@med.ovgu.de.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an effective
treatment for motor impairments in Parkinson's disease (PD) but its effect on the
motivational regulation of action control is still not fully understood. We
investigated whether DBS of the STN influences the ability of PD patients to act 
for anticipated reward or loss, or whether DBS improves action execution
independent of motivational valence. 16 PD patients (12 male, mean
age = 58.5 ± 10.17 years) treated with bilateral STN-DBS and an age- and
gender-matched group of healthy controls (HC) performed a go/no-go task whose
contingencies explicitly decouple valence and action. Patients were tested with
(ON) and without (OFF) active STN stimulation. For HC, there was a benefit in
performing rewarded actions when compared to actions that avoided punishment. PD 
patients showed such a benefit reliably only when STN stimulation was ON. In
fact, the relative behavioral benefit for go for reward over go to avoid losing
was stronger in the PD patients under DBS ON than in HC. In PD patients, rather
than generally improving motor functions independent of motivational valence,
modulation of the STN by DBS improves action execution specifically when rewards 
are anticipated. Thus, STN-DBS establishes a reliable congruency between action
and reward ("Pavlovian congruency") and remarkably enhances it over the level
observed in HC.

PMID: 25929662  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


46. J Neurol. 2015 May 1. [Epub ahead of print]

Brainstem raphe and substantia nigra echogenicity in idiopathic REM sleep
behavior disorder with comorbid depression.

Vilas D(1), Iranzo A, Pont-Sunyer C, Serradell M, Gaig C, Santamaria J, Tolosa E.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Service, Hospital Clinic de Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERNED,
C/Villarroel 170, 08036, Barcelona, Spain.

In Parkinson disease (PD), REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) and depression may
occur before the onset of parkinsonism. Transcranial sonography (TCS) shows that 
hyperechogenicity of the substantia nigra (SN+) and hypoechogenicity of the
brainstem raphe (BR+) are frequent in PD, particularly when depression is
associated. Combined SN+ and BR+ identify PD subjects in whom depression
antedates parkinsonism onset. It can be speculated that SN+ and BR+ may also
identify idiopathic RBD (IRBD) subjects with comorbid depression, supporting the 
clinical diagnosis of this mood disorder. We aimed to study the brainstem raphe
and substantia nigra echogenicity and their ability to predict comorbid
depression in IRBD. Seventy-two IRBD patients and 71 age and sex-matched controls
underwent TCS. Depression was diagnosed by means of DSM-IV criteria. Depression
was more frequent in IRBD patients than in controls (44.4 vs. 18.3 %; p = 0.001).
BR+ was more frequent in depressed than in nondepressed IRBD patients (32.0 vs.
11.4 %; p = 0.050). Sensitivity of BR+ to predict depression in IRBD was 32.0 %, 
specificity was 88.6 %, and relative risk was 1.88. Sensitivity of SN+ to predict
depression in IRBD was 72.0 %, specificity was 44.1 %, and relative risk was
1.53. Sensitivity of combined BR+ and SN+ to predict depression in IRBD was
23.1 %, specificity 97.1 %, and relative risk was 2.31. Hypoechogenicity of the
brainstem raphe, particularly when combined with hyperechogenicity of the
substantia nigra, detects comorbid depression in IRBD. This finding suggests that
dysfunction of the serotonergic dorsal raphe may be involved in the
pathophysiology of depression in IRBD.

PMID: 25929659  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


47. J Neurol. 2015 May 1. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence and timeline of nonmotor symptoms in idiopathic rapid eye movement
sleep behavior disorder.

Aguirre-Mardones C(1), Iranzo A, Vilas D, Serradell M, Gaig C, Santamaría J,
Tolosa E.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Service, Hospital Clinic de Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERNED,
C/Villarroel 170, 08036, Barcelona, Spain.

Parkinson disease (PD) patients may experience nonmotor symptoms (NMS) before
Parkinsonism onset. Patients with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (IRBD)
eventually develop PD and may represent premotor PD. We aimed to evaluate the
prevalence and perceived timeline of NMS in IRBD through validated scales and
questionnaires used in PD research. In 44 IRBD patients and 40 matched controls, 
overall NMS evaluation was assessed by NMS questionnaire for Parkinson disease,
olfaction by University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test, dysautonomia
by scales for outcomes in Parkinson's disease-autonomic, constipation by Rome III
criteria, depression by Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, cognitive
impairment by Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA) and hypersomnia by Epworth
Sleepiness Scale. Patients were asked to report the perceived time of onset of
hyposmia, constipation, and depression. Hyposmia (52.3 vs. 20.0 %, p = 0.002) and
constipation (56.8 vs. 20.0 %, p = 0.001) were more frequent in patients than in 
controls. Patients reported more memory problems and showed a trend toward lower 
score in MoCA. Depression and hypersomnia were not more frequent in patients. The
first symptom perceived was RBD in 38.6 % patients, hyposmia in 15.9 %,
constipation in 11.4 %, and depression in 6.8 %. The temporal course of the NMS
studied was heterogeneous. The three most common presentations were RBD followed 
by hyposmia; hyposmia followed by RBD; and hyposmia followed by RBD and
constipation occurring at the same time span. IRBD patients frequently exhibit
NMS that occur in premotor PD, particularly hyposmia and constipation. In IRBD,
the perceived timeline of NMS is highly variable. This variability may suggest
that pathological changes occurring in IRBD subjects are also heterogeneous and
not restricted to the structures that regulate REM sleep.

PMID: 25929658  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


48. Nanomedicine (Lond). 2015 Apr;10(7):1127-38. doi: 10.2217/nnm.14.165.

Improved neuroprotective effects of resveratrol-loaded polysorbate 80-coated
poly(lactide) nanoparticles in MPTP-induced Parkinsonism.

da Rocha Lindner G(1), Bonfanti Santos D, Colle D, Gasnhar Moreira EL, Daniel
Prediger R, Farina M, Khalil NM, Mara Mainardes R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology,
Universidade Estadual do Centro-Oeste/UNICENTRO, Rua Simeão Camargo Varela de Sá,
03, 85040-080, Guarapuava, PR, Brazil.

AIM: This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of resveratrol
(RVT)-loaded polysorbate 80 (PS80)-coated poly(lactide) nanoparticles in a mouse 
model of Parkinson's disease (PD), and compared these effects with those from
bulk RVT.
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice received for 15 days RVT intraperitoneally (nanoparticulate
or non-nanoparticulate), as well as single intranasal administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a neurotoxin that damages
dopaminergic neurons and induces PD-related symptoms.
RESULTS: MPTP induced significant impairments on olfactory discrimination and
social recognition memory, as well as caused striatal oxidative stress and
reduced the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in striatum. RVT-loaded
nanoparticles (but not bulk) displayed significant neuroprotection against
MPTP-induced behavioral and neurochemical changes.
CONCLUSION: These results point to RVT-loaded poly(lactide)-nanoparticles coated 
with PS80 a promising nanomedical tool and adjuvant therapy for PD.

PMID: 25929569  [PubMed - in process]


49. Neuromodulation. 2015 May 1. doi: 10.1111/ner.12302. [Epub ahead of print]

Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation Ameliorates Behavioral Deficits and
Reduces Oxidative Stress in 1-Methyl-4-Phenyl-1,2,3,6-Tetrahydropyridine-Induced 
Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease.

Lu C(1), Wei Y, Hu R, Wang Y, Li K, Li X.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Neuronal Network and Brain Disease Modulation, Yangtze
University Medical School, Jingzhou, Hubei, China.

PURPOSE: Oxidative stress is involved in the pathological process of Parkinson's 
disease (PD). The present study was designed to investigate the effects of
transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on the oxidative stress in a mouse
model of PD induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP).
METHODS: The animals were modulated by tDCS. Behavioral alterations were observed
after three weeks of tDCS treatment using rotary performance tests. The mice were
sacrificed for the measurement of the level of dopamine (DA), enzymatic tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH), nonenzymatic malonaldehyde (MDA), an enzymatic superoxide
dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) in the mouse brain and
serum.
RESULTS: The mice treated with MPTP had an increased MDA level but a decreased
SOD and GSH-Px activity, as well as a behavior impairment. These abnormalities
were significantly attenuated by tDCS treatment and by levodopa and benserazide.
DISCUSSION: The study demonstrated that the tDCS could have a potential for the
therapeutic usage in the PD.

© 2015 International Neuromodulation Society.

PMID: 25929279  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


50. BMC Med Genet. 2015 Apr 3;16(1):21. doi: 10.1186/s12881-015-0167-0.

A study in Polish patients with cardiomyopathy emphasizes pathogenicity of
phospholamban (PLN) mutations at amino acid position 9 and low penetrance of
heterozygous null PLN mutations.

Truszkowska GT(1), Bilińska ZT(2), Kosińska J(3), Śleszycka J(4), Rydzanicz M(5),
Sobieszczańska-Małek M(6), Franaszczyk M(7), Bilińska M(8), Stawiński P(9),
Michalak E(10), Małek ŁA(11), Chmielewski P(12), Foss-Nieradko B(13), Machnicki
MM(14), Stokłosa T(15), Ponińska J(16), Szumowski Ł(17), Grzybowski J(18),
Piwoński J(19), Drygas W(20), Zieliński T(21), Płoski R(22).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42,
04-628, Warszawa, Poland. gtruszkowska@ikard.pl. (2)Unit for Screening Studies in
Inherited Cardiovascular Diseases, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42,
04-628, Warszawa, Poland. zbilinska@ikard.pl. (3)Department of Medical Genetics, 
Warsaw Medical University, ul. Pawińskiego 3C, 02-106, Warszawa, Poland.
samocko@wp.pl. (4)Department of Cardiomyopathies, Institute of Cardiology, ul.
Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland. j.sleszycka@ikard.pl. (5)Department of
Medical Genetics, Warsaw Medical University, ul. Pawińskiego 3C, 02-106,
Warszawa, Poland. mrydzanicz@wum.edu.pl. (6)Department of Heart Failure and
Transplantology, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa,
Poland. msobieszczanska@ikard.pl. (7)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute
of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland. m.fran@wp.pl.
(8)Department of Arrhythmia, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628,
Warszawa, Poland. m.bilinska@ikard.pl. (9)Department of Immunology, Center for
Biostructure Research, Medical University of Warsaw, Warszawa, Poland.
stawinski@g.pl. (10)Unit for Screening Studies in Inherited Cardiovascular
Diseases, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland.
e.michalak@ikard.pl. (11)Department of Interventional Cardiology and Angiology,
Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland.
l.malek@ikard.pl. (12)Unit for Screening Studies in Inherited Cardiovascular
Diseases, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland.
p.chmielewski@ikard.pl. (13)Unit for Screening Studies in Inherited
Cardiovascular Diseases, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628,
Warszawa, Poland. bfn@ikard.pl. (14)Department of Immunology, Center for
Biostructure Research, Medical University of Warsaw, Warszawa, Poland.
marcin.m.machnicki@gmail.com. (15)Department of Immunology, Center for
Biostructure Research, Medical University of Warsaw, Warszawa, Poland.
tomasz.stoklosa@wum.edu.pl. (16)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of
Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland. j.poninska@ikard.pl.
(17)Department of Arrhythmia, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628,
Warszawa, Poland. l.szumowski@ikard.pl. (18)Department of Cardiomyopathies,
Institute of Cardiology, ul. Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland.
j.grzybowski@ikard.pl. (19)Department of Epidemiology, Cardiovascular Diseases
Prevention and Promotion of Health, Institute of Cardiology, ul. Niemodlińska 33,
04-635, Warszawa, Poland. j.piwonski@ikard.pl. (20)Department of Epidemiology,
Cardiovascular Diseases Prevention and Promotion of Health, Institute of
Cardiology, ul. Niemodlińska 33, 04-635, Warszawa, Poland. w.drygas@ikard.pl.
(21)Department of Heart Failure and Transplantology, Institute of Cardiology, ul.
Alpejska 42, 04-628, Warszawa, Poland. t.zielinski@ikard.pl. (22)Department of
Medical Genetics, Warsaw Medical University, ul. Pawińskiego 3C, 02-106,
Warszawa, Poland. rploski@wp.pl.

BACKGROUND: In humans mutations in the PLN gene, encoding phospholamban - a
regulator of sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA), cause cardiomyopathy 
with prevalence depending on the population. Our purpose was to identify PLN
mutations in Polish cardiomyopathy patients.
METHODS: We studied 161 unrelated subjects referred for genetic testing for
cardiomyopathies: 135 with dilated cardiomyopathy, 22 with hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy and 4 with other cardiomyopathies. In 23 subjects multiple genes
were sequenced by next generation sequencing and in all subjects PLN exons were
analyzed by Sanger sequencing. Control group included 200 healthy subjects
matched with patients for ethnicity, sex and age. Large deletions/insertions were
screened by real time polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: We detected three different heterozygous mutations in the PLN gene: a
novel null c.9_10insA:(p.Val4Serfs*15) variant and two missense variants: c.25C >
T:(p.Arg9Cys) and c.26G > T:(p.Arg9Leu). The (p.Val4Serfs*15) variant occurred in
the patient with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome in whom the diagnosis of
cardiomyopathy was not confirmed and his mother who had concentric left
ventricular remodeling but normal left ventricular mass and function. We did not 
detect large deletions/insertions in PLN in cohort studied.
CONCLUSIONS: In Poland, similar to most populations, PLN mutations rarely cause
cardiomyopathy. The 9(th) PLN residue is apparently a mutation hot spot whereas a
single dose of c.9_10insA, and likely other null PLN mutations, cause the disease
only with low penetrance or are not pathogenic.

PMCID: PMC4421997
PMID: 25928149  [PubMed - in process]


51. Z Orthop Unfall. 2015 Apr 30. [Epub ahead of print]

[Influence of Parkinson's Disease on the Perioperative Course of Patients after
Lumbar Fusion Surgery].

[Article in German]

Grözinger A(1), Rommelspacher Y(1), Wirtz DC(1), Sander K(2), Pflugmacher R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum
Bonn. (2)ARTIMED, Kassel.

Background: The incidence of Morbus Parkinson (MP) increases with age. An
increasing number of patients with MP in the orthopaedic patient population is
expected. In the case of general surgery and trauma surgery MP in patients was
identified as an important factor for perioperative morbidity. This study
investigates the influence of MP on the perioperative course of patients after
elective lumbar fusion. Patients and Methods: A retrospective matched-pairs
analysis with 17 patients in each group was conducted with patients treated in
the department of spinal surgery in an orthopaedic university hospital for
symptomatic degenerative lumbar spine disease without improvement after
conservative therapy. The analysis compared the perioperative courses of patients
with MP (MP) and patients without MP (no MP) concerning duration of hospital and 
intensive care treatment, duration for mobilisation, rehabilitation and
occurrence of complications. Results: The mean duration of inpatient treatment
(MP 18.4 ± 11.6 d; no MP 14.7 ± 5.4 d), duration of intensive care (MP
1.7 ± 4.2 d; no MP 1,0 ± 1,9 d) and duration for mobilisation (MP 8.8 ± 12.46 d; 
no MP 5.0 ± 4.2 d) tend to be longer for MP patients. There was no statistically 
significant difference between both patient groups. A rehabilitative inpatient
follow-up treatment was more frequent in patients with MP (MP n = 4; no MP
n = 2). None of the two groups showed an increased occurrence of complications.
Conclusion: While general surgery and trauma surgery patients show significant
differences regarding duration of inpatient treatment, more frequent falls and
more frequent rehabilitative inpatient follow-up treatments, patients after
elective lumbar fusion show only a trend. Possibly the result is due to the
underlying degenerative disease of the lumbar spine with spinal stenosis and gait
disturbance in the MP group and as well in the control group. Therefore both
groups suffered from impaired mobility. Additionally there was a high incidence
of other comorbidities in the control group, which could have affected the
results of this study. Another limitation is the number of the included patients.
Although, this study showed no increased occurrence of complications, typical
risk factors, like increased risk for airway complications, urinary tract
infection and falls, should be considered for the treatment of MP patients.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

PMID: 25927279  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


52. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 29;35(17):6918-30. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0587-15.2015.

Subthalamic nucleus activity in the awake hemiparkinsonian rat: relationships
with motor and cognitive networks.

Delaville C(1), McCoy AJ(1), Gerber CM(1), Cruz AV(1), Walters JR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurophysiological Pharmacology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-3702. (2)Neurophysiological Pharmacology Section, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892-3702 waltersj@ninds.nih.gov.

Oscillatory activity in both beta and gamma ranges has been recorded in the
subthalamic nucleus (STN) of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and linked to
motor function, with beta activity considered antikinetic, and gamma activity,
prokinetic. However, the extent to which nonmotor networks contribute to this
activity is unclear. This study uses hemiparkinsonian rats performing a treadmill
walking task to compare synchronized STN local field potential (LFP) activity
with activity in motor cortex (MCx) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), areas
involved in motor and cognitive processes, respectively. Data show increases in
STN and MCx 29-36 Hz LFP spectral power and coherence after dopamine depletion,
which are reduced by apomorphine and levodopa treatments. In contrast, recordings
from mPFC 3 weeks after dopamine depletion failed to show peaks in 29-36 Hz LFP
power. However, mPFC and STN both showed peaks in the 45-55 Hz frequency range in
LFP power and coherence during walking before and 21 days after dopamine
depletion. Interestingly, power in this low gamma range was transiently reduced
in both mPFC and STN after dopamine depletion but recovered by day 21. In
contrast to the 45-55 Hz activity, the amplitude of the exaggerated 29-36 Hz
rhythm in the STN was modulated by paw movement. Furthermore, as in PD patients, 
after dopamine treatment a third band (high gamma) emerged in the lesioned
hemisphere. The results suggest that STN integrates activity from both motor and 
cognitive networks in a manner that varies with frequency, behavioral state, and 
the integrity of the dopamine system.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/356918-13$15.00/0.

PMID: 25926466  [PubMed - in process]


53. Neurology. 2015 Apr 29. pii: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001619. [Epub ahead of print]

Impaired corticostriatal connectivity in impulse control disorders in Parkinson
disease.

Carriere N(1), Lopes R(2), Defebvre L(2), Delmaire C(2), Dujardin K(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Université Lille Nord de France (N.C., R.L., L.D., C.D., K.D.),
U1171, Lille; Service de Neurologie et Pathologie du Mouvement (N.C., L.D., K.D.)
and Service de Neuroradiologie (R.L., C.D.), Centre Hospitalier Régional
Universitaire, Lille, France. nicolas.carriere@chru-lille.fr. (2)From the
Université Lille Nord de France (N.C., R.L., L.D., C.D., K.D.), U1171, Lille;
Service de Neurologie et Pathologie du Mouvement (N.C., L.D., K.D.) and Service
de Neuroradiologie (R.L., C.D.), Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire,
Lille, France.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the striatum's resting-state functional connectivity in
patients with Parkinson disease (PD) with and without impulse control disorders
(ICDs).
METHODS: Twenty patients with PD and ICDs, 19 patients with PD but no ICDs, and
19 healthy controls underwent fMRI in the resting state. The ventral striatum,
dorsal caudate, and anterior and posterior putamen were segmented
semiautomatically. For each region of interest, a seed-based connectivity
analysis was performed on preprocessed fMRI data mapped on the ipsilateral
cortical surface. An additional cortical thickness analysis was used to assess
and compare gray matter atrophy in the 3 study subgroups.
RESULTS: The presence of an ICD in patients with PD was associated with
functional disconnection between the left anterior putamen and both the left
inferior temporal gyrus and the left anterior cingulate gyrus, as well as a trend
toward a functional disconnection between several motor and associative striatal 
regions and limbic, associative, and motor cortical regions. Patients without
ICDs did not differ from healthy controls in corticostriatal connectivity. The
cortical thickness analysis did not reveal any significant differences among the 
3 study subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: In PD, ICDs are associated with altered connectivity between an
associative striatal area (the left anterior putamen) and associative and limbic 
cortical regions (the left inferior temporal gyrus and the left anterior
cingulate gyrus).

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25925985  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


54. Neurology. 2015 Apr 29. pii: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001621. [Epub ahead of print]

How much does sex matter in Parkinson disease?

Picillo M(1), Fasano A(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Clinic and the Edmond J.
Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease (M.P., A.F.), Toronto Western Hospital and
Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, Canada; and the Centre for
Neurodegenerative Diseases (CEMAND), Department of Medicine and Surgery (M.P.),
University of Salerno, Italy. (2)From the Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement
Disorders Clinic and the Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease (M.P.,
A.F.), Toronto Western Hospital and Division of Neurology, University of Toronto,
Canada; and the Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases (CEMAND), Department of
Medicine and Surgery (M.P.), University of Salerno, Italy.
alfonso.fasano@gmail.com.

PMID: 25925984  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


55. Neurology. 2015 Apr 29. pii: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001609. [Epub ahead of print]

Potential sex differences in nonmotor symptoms in early drug-naive Parkinson
disease.

Liu R(1), Umbach DM(2), Peddada SD(2), Xu Z(2), Tröster AI(2), Huang X(2), Chen
H(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Epidemiology Branch (R.L., Z.X., H.C.) and Biostatistics and
Computational Biology Branch (D.M.U., S.D.P.) of the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, NC; Barrow Neurological
Institute (A.I.T.), Phoenix, AZ; Department of Neurology (X.H.), Pennsylvania
State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA.
liur2@niehs.nih.gov. (2)From the Epidemiology Branch (R.L., Z.X., H.C.) and
Biostatistics and Computational Biology Branch (D.M.U., S.D.P.) of the National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, NC; Barrow
Neurological Institute (A.I.T.), Phoenix, AZ; Department of Neurology (X.H.),
Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine potential sex differences in nonmotor symptoms (NMS) among 
drug-naive patients with Parkinson disease (PD), and to identify NMS that can
best differentiate patients with early PD from controls.
METHODS: Our cross-sectional analysis included 414 newly diagnosed, untreated
patients with PD (269 men and 145 women) and 188 healthy controls (121 men and 67
women) in the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative Study. NMS were measured
using well-validated instruments covering sleep, olfactory, neurobehavioral,
autonomic, and neuropsychological domains.
RESULTS: Male and female patients with PD were fairly comparable on motor
presentations but differed on several nonmotor features. Male patients with PD
had significantly more pronounced deficits in olfaction (p = 0.02) and in certain
cognitive measurements (all p < 0.01) than female patients, whereas female cases 
experienced higher trait anxiety (p = 0.02). Multiple stepwise logistic
regression analysis showed that the combination of NMS measures-University of
Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT), Montreal Cognitive Assessment
(MoCA), Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's Disease-Autonomic (SCOPA-AUT), and
state anxiety from the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory-effectively differentiated
patients with PD from controls with an area under the receiver operating
characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.913 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.89-0.94).
UPSIT, MoCA, and SCOPA-AUT were the most predictive NMS measurements in men (AUC 
= 0.919; 95% CI: 0.89-0.95) as compared to UPSIT, MoCA, and REM Sleep Behavior
Disorder Screening Questionnaire in women (AUC = 0.903; 95% CI: 0.86-0.95).
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed notable sex differences in several nonmotor
features of patients with de novo PD. Furthermore, we found a parsimonious NMS
combination that could effectively differentiate de novo cases from healthy
controls.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25925983  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


56. Am J Epidemiol. 2015 May 15;181(10):808-16. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwu332. Epub 2015
Apr 29.

Lifestyle, family history, and risk of idiopathic Parkinson disease: a large
danish case-control study.

Kenborg L, Lassen CF, Ritz B, Andersen KK, Christensen J, Schernhammer ES, Hansen
J, Wermuth L, Rod NH, Olsen JH.

The relationship between Parkinson disease (PD) and smoking has been examined in 
several studies, but little is known about smoking in conjunction with other
behaviors and a family history of PD. Using unconditional logistic regression
analysis, we studied individual and joint associations of these factors with
idiopathic PD among 1,808 Danish patients who were diagnosed in 1996-2009 and
matched to 1,876 randomly selected population controls. Although there was a
downward trend in duration of smoking, this was not observed for daily tobacco
consumption. A moderate intake of caffeine (3.1-5 cups/day) was associated with a
lower odds ratio for PD (0.45, 95% confidence interval: 0.34, 0.62), as was a
moderate intake of alcohol (3.1-7 units/week) (odds ratio = 0.60, 95% confidence 
interval: 0.58, 0.84); a higher daily intake did not reduce the odds further.
When these behaviors were studied in combination with smoking, the odds ratios
were lower than those for each one alone. Compared with never smokers with no
family history of PD, never smokers who did have a family history had an odds
ratio of 2.81 (95% confidence interval: 1.91, 4.13); for smokers with a family
history, the odds ratio was 1.60 (95% confidence interval: 1.15, 2.23). In
conclusion, duration of smoking seems to be more important than intensity in the 
relationship between smoking and idiopathic PD. The finding of lower risk
estimates for smoking in combination with caffeine or alcohol requires further
confirmation.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25925389  [PubMed - in process]


57. Nutr Neurosci. 2015 Apr 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroprotective effects of fermented soybean products (Cheonggukjang)
manufactured by mixed culture of Bacillus subtilis MC31 and Lactobacillus sakei
383 on trimethyltin-induced cognitive defects mice.

Go J, Kim JE, Kwak MH, Koh EK, Song SH, Sung JE, Kim DS, Hong JT, Hwang DY.

Objectives This study aimed to investigate the beneficial effects of
Cheonggukjang (CGK) manufactured by mixed culture of Bacillus subtilis MC31 and
Lactobacillus sakei 383 on neurotoxic damages. Methods The specific aspects of
brain functions were measured in ICR mice that had been pretreated for 4 weeks
with three difference doses of CGK before trimethyltin (TMT) treatment. Results
The short- and long-term memory loss induced by TMT treatment was significantly
improved in the CGK-pretreated group in a dose-dependent manner. The number of
dead cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus was decreased in the
TMT/CGK-cotreated group relative to the TMT/vehicle-treated group, whereas
significant suppression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was observed in
the same group. Additionally, a dose-dependent increase in nerve growth factor
(NGF) concentration, activation of the NGF receptor signaling pathway including
the TrkA high affinity receptor and p75(NTR) low affinity receptor, and decline
in Bax/Bcl-2 level was measured in all TMT/CGK-treated groups, although a
decrease in the active form of caspase-3 was observed in the TMT/H-CGK-treated
group. Furthermore, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was enhanced in the
TMT/CGK-treated group, whereas the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), a marker of
lipid peroxidation, was 43-58% lower in the TMT/CGK-treated group than the
TMT/vehicle-treated group. Discussion These results demonstrate that CGK
fermented by mixed culture of B. subtilis and L. sakei could exert a wide range
of beneficial activities for neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer,
Parkinson, and Huntington disease.

PMID: 25923962  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


58. J Sleep Res. 2015 Apr 29. doi: 10.1111/jsr.12304. [Epub ahead of print]

Analysis of automated quantification of motor activity in REM sleep behaviour
disorder.

Frandsen R(1), Nikolic M, Zoetmulder M, Kempfner L, Jennum P.

Author information: 
(1)Danish Centre for Sleep Medicine, Department of Clinical Neurophysiology,
Glostrup Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behaviour disorder (RBD) is characterized by dream
enactment and REM sleep without atonia. Atonia is evaluated on the basis of
visual criteria, but there is a need for more objective, quantitative
measurements. We aimed to define and optimize a method for establishing baseline 
and all other parameters in automatic quantifying submental motor activity during
REM sleep. We analysed the electromyographic activity of the submental muscle in 
polysomnographs of 29 patients with idiopathic RBD (iRBD), 29 controls and 43
Parkinson's (PD) patients. Six adjustable parameters for motor activity were
defined. Motor activity was detected and quantified automatically. The optimal
parameters for separating RBD patients from controls were investigated by
identifying the greatest area under the receiver operating curve from a total of 
648 possible combinations. The optimal parameters were validated on PD patients. 
Automatic baseline estimation improved characterization of atonia during REM
sleep, as it eliminates inter/intra-observer variability and can be standardized 
across diagnostic centres. We found an optimized method for quantifying motor
activity during REM sleep. The method was stable and can be used to differentiate
RBD from controls and to quantify motor activity during REM sleep in patients
with neurodegeneration. No control had more than 30% of REM sleep with increased 
motor activity; patients with known RBD had as low activity as 4.5%. We developed
and applied a sensitive, quantitative, automatic algorithm to evaluate loss of
atonia in RBD patients.

© 2015 European Sleep Research Society.

PMID: 25923472  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


59. J Neuroimaging. 2015 Apr 29. doi: 10.1111/jon.12242. [Epub ahead of print]

Multicenter Semiquantitative Evaluation of (123) I-FP-CIT Brain SPECT.

Skanjeti A(1), Castellano G, Elia BO, Zotta M, Dazzara F, Manfredi M, Galati A,
Grimaldi S, Balma M, Pellerito RE, Podio V.

Author information: 
(1)Nuclear Medicine Unit, San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, University of Turin,
Orbassano, Italy; Medical Science Department, University A. Avogadro, Novara,
Italy.

AIMS: The aims of this study were: (1) to cross-compare data from
semiquantitative, software-assisted, and phantom-corrected evaluations of (123)
I-ioflupane [(123) I]N-ω-fluoropropyl-2β-carbomethoxy-3β-{4-iodophenyl}nortropane
FP-CIT brain single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) acquired in three
centers; (2) to assess the accuracy of semiquantitative evaluation; and (3) to
identify the threshold with the best accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity in
patients with suspected Parkinsonian Syndrome.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Two-hundred-twenty patients, acquired in three centers,
were included. All of them underwent (123) I-FP-CIT brain SPECT. All examinations
were analyzed with the freely available software, BasGan, and semiquantitative
data were used to predict disease. Analysis was based on the values from the most
deteriorated putamen and caudate, normalized for age, and corrected by
anthropomorphic phantom data. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis
was performed and areas under the curve (AUC) were estimated.
RESULTS: Analysis showed high AUCs (.880, .866, .920, and .882 for each center
and multicenter setting). Best thresholds were 1.53 and 1.56 for putamen and
caudate, respectively. Thresholds of putamen data showed sensitivity and
specificity of 86% and 89%, respectively, in the multicenter setting. Neither
sensibility nor specificity showed significant differences among centers.
CONCLUSION: A unique, accurate threshold for all centers, with high sensitivity
and specificity was identified. Semiquantitative assessment of (123) I-FP-CIT
brain SPECT among different centers resulted reliable, accurate, and potentially 
useful in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 by the American Society of Neuroimaging.

PMID: 25923060  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


60. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 15. pii: S1353-8020(15)00129-7. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.026. [Epub ahead of print]

Short walking distances compromise the stride length in Parkinson's disease
patients.

Fernandez-Del-Olmo M(1), Sanchez JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Sciences of Sport and Physical Education, Department of Physical
Education, University of A Coruña, A Coruña, Spain. Electronic address:
mafo@udc.es. (2)Faculty of Sciences of Sport and Physical Education, Department
of Physical Education, University of A Coruña, A Coruña, Spain.

PMID: 25922271  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


61. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 15. pii: S1353-8020(15)00135-2. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Does the cerebellum intervene in the abnormal somatosensory temporal
discrimination in Parkinson's disease?

Di Biasio F(1), Conte A(2), Bologna M(1), Iezzi E(1), Rocchi L(3), Modugno N(1), 
Berardelli A(4).

Author information: 
(1)IRCCS Neuromed Institute, Pozzilli, IS, Italy. (2)IRCCS Neuromed Institute,
Pozzilli, IS, Italy; Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, Sapienza University 
of Rome, Rome, Italy. (3)Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, Sapienza
University of Rome, Rome, Italy. (4)IRCCS Neuromed Institute, Pozzilli, IS,
Italy; Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome,
Italy. Electronic address: alfredo.berardelli@uniroma1.it.

INTRODUCTION: somatosensory temporal discrimination threshold (STDT) measures the
ability to perceive two stimuli as being sequential. Altered STDT has been
reported in Parkinson's disease (PD). The cerebellum seems to play a role in the 
pathophysiology of PD, and may consequently be involved in the pathophysiology of
STDT abnormalities.
METHODS: STDT was investigated in fifteen PD patients who underwent real and sham
cerebellar continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) in the OFF condition. Eight 
patients underwent a further real cTBS session in ON condition. STDT was measured
on both hands before, 5 and 25 min after real and sham cTBS delivered over the
cerebellar hemisphere ipsilateral to the more affected side. We controlled the
efficacy of our protocol by monitoring primary motor cortex (M1) excitability.
Ten healthy subjects acted as control group.
RESULTS: STDT values were increased in PD patients in the OFF condition compared 
with healthy subjects and PD patients in the ON condition. In PD patients OFF
condition, real but not sham cerebellar cTBS, significantly reduced STDT values
only in the hand ipsilateral to the stimulated cerebellar hemisphere. Cerebellar 
cTBS also decreased motor evoked potentials (MEP) size in the contralateral M1.
When PD patients were tested in the ON condition, cerebellar cTBS failed to
modify STDT values.
CONCLUSION: cerebellar cTBS improved STDT values in PD patients exclusively in
OFF condition. We hypothesize that cerebellar stimulation partially compensates
for increased STDT values only when patients are OFF dopaminergic therapy. This
suggests that the cerebellum may act as compensatory system in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25922270  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


62. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 31. pii: S1353-8020(15)00124-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.021. [Epub ahead of print]

Hyposmia correlates with SNCA variant and non-motor symptoms in Chinese patients 
with Parkinson's disease.

Chen W(1), Kang WY(2), Chen S(2), Wang Y(2), Xiao Q(2), Wang G(2), Liu J(3), Chen
SD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Rui Jin Hospital
Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025,
China; Department of Neurology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital Affiliated to
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. (2)Department 
of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Rui Jin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. (3)Department
of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Rui Jin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. Electronic
address: jly0520@hotmail.com. (4)Department of Neurology and Institute of
Neurology, Rui Jin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of
Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. Electronic address: chen_sd@medmail.com.cn.

BACKGROUND: Hyposmia plays an important role in the early and differential
diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD); however its underlying mechanism is poorly
understood. The aim of the present study is to explore the clinical phenotypic
and genotypic correlation of hyposmia in Chinese PD patients.
METHODS: Olfactory function evaluated by 16-item odor identification test from
Sniffin' Sticks (SS-16) of 218 Chinese Han PD patients and 110 healthy controls
was compared. 186 patients also had the genetic information of two positive
GWAS-linked SNCA loci (rs11931074, rs894278) previously validated in our center. 
The associations of hyposmia with SNCA variants and disease phenotypic
characteristics including motor symptoms (UPDRS motor score) and other common
NMSs (clinical possible RBD-cpRBD, depression and chronic constipation) were
analyzed.
RESULTS: Nearly 39.9% (n = 87) of PD reported subjective complaints of hyposmia, 
while 60.1% (n = 131) patients had objective hyposmia (SS-16 < 8.3). Patients
with hyposmia had older age (p = 0.001), later onset age (p = 0.020), higher
SCOPA-AUT scores (p = 0.011), higher percentage of chronic constipation
(p = 0.001) and cpRBD (p = 0.003). Binary logistic regression analysis revealed
that ageing (OR = 1.058; 95%CI: 1.012-1.106; p = 0.013), chronic constipation
(OR = 2.072; 95%CI: 1.157-3.710; p = 0.014) and cpRBD (OR = 2.234; 95%CI:
1.040-4.797; p = 0.039) were independent influential factors of hyposmia in
Chinese PD patients. Subgroup analysis of patients with both clinical and genetic
results demonstrated that after adjusting for age, sex, chronic constipation and 
cpRBD, rs11931074 TT genotype may increase the risk of hyposmia in PD (OR = 3.24 
95% CI = 1.23-8.51, p = 0.017) compared to GG genotype via an additive model.
CONCLUSIONS: Age, cpRBD, chronic constipation and SNCA rs11931074 may correlate
with hyposmia in Chinese PD patients.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25921825  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


63. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 29. doi: 10.1002/mds.26251. [Epub ahead of print]

Diffusion tensor imaging of the nigrostriatal fibers in Parkinson's disease.

Zhang Y(1), Wu IW, Buckley S, Coffey CS, Foster E, Mendick S, Seibyl J, Schuff N.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Imaging of Neurodegenerative Diseases, San Francisco VA Medical
Center, San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging,
University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is histopathologically characterized by the loss of
dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The depletion of these
neurons is thought to reduce the dopaminergic function of the nigrostriatal
pathway, as well as the neural fibers that link the substantia nigra to the
striatum (putamen and caudate), causing a dysregulation in striatal activity that
ultimately leads to lack of movement control. Based on diffusion tensor imaging, 
visualizing this pathway and measuring alterations of the fiber integrity remain 
challenging. The objectives were to 1) develop a diffusion tensor tractography
protocol for reliably tracking the nigrostriatal fibers on multicenter data; 2)
test whether the integrities measured by diffusion tensor imaging of the
nigrostriatal fibers are abnormal in PD; and 3) test whether abnormal integrities
of the nigrostriatal fibers in PD patients are associated with the severity of
motor disability and putaminal dopamine binding ratios. Diffusion tensor
tractography was performed on 50 drug-naïve PD patients and 27 healthy control
subjects from the international multicenter Parkinson's Progression Marker
Initiative. Tractography consistently detected the nigrostriatal fibers, yielding
reliable diffusion measures. Fractional anisotropy, along with radial and axial
diffusivity of the nigrostriatal tract, showed systematic abnormalities in
patients. In addition, variations in fractional anisotropy and radial diffusivity
of the nigrostriatal tract were associated with the degree of motor deficits in
PD patients. Taken together, the findings imply that the diffusion tensor imaging
characteristic of the nigrostriatal tract is potentially an index for detecting
and staging of early PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4418199 [Available on 2016-10-29]
PMID: 25920732  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


64. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 17. pii: S1353-8020(15)00153-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Structural and functional neuroimaging in patients with Parkinson's disease and
visual hallucinations: A critical review.

Lenka A(1), Jhunjhunwala KR(1), Saini J(2), Pal PK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, National Institute of Mental Health &
Neurosciences, Hosur Road, Bangalore 560029, Karnataka, India; Department of
Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences, Hosur Road,
Bangalore 560029, Karnataka, India. (2)Department of Neuroimaging and
Interventional Radiology, National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences,
Hosur Road, Bangalore 560029, Karnataka, India. (3)Department of Neurology,
National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences, Hosur Road, Bangalore
560029, Karnataka, India. Electronic address: pal.pramod@rediffmail.com.

Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) may develop various non-motor symptoms
(NMS) during the course of the illness and psychosis is one of the common NMS of 
PD. Visual hallucinations (VH) are the most common manifestation of psychosis in 
PD. The exact pathogenesis of VH in patients with PD is not clearly understood.
Presence of VH has been described to be associated with rapid cognitive decline
and increased nursing home placements in PD patients. A large number of
structural and functional neuroimaging studies have been conducted to understand 
the cerebral basis of VH in PD. Structural imaging studies (Voxel Based
Morphometry) have reported grey matter atrophy in multiple regions of the brain
such as primary visual cortex, visual association cortex, limbic regions,
cholinergic structures such as pedunculopontine nucleus and substantia
innominata, which conclude possible alterations of brain regions associated with 
functions such as visuospatial-perception, attention control and memory. Most
functional neuroimaging studies (functional MRI, positron emission tomography and
single photon emission computerized tomography) have reported altered activation,
blood flow, or reduced metabolism in both dorsal and ventral visual pathways,
which probably indicates an alteration in the normal bottom-top visual processing
and the presence of an aberrant top-down visual processing. This review
critically analyzes the published studies on the structural and functional
neuroimaging in PD patients with VH.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25920541  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


65. J Clin Psychiatry. 2015 Apr;76(4):e534-6. doi: 10.4088/JCP.15f09950.

Cost of treatment as a placebo effect in psychopharmacology: importance in the
context of generic drugs.

Andrade C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychopharmacology, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bangalore, India candrade@psychiatrist.com.

Nonspecific factors have long been known in both psychotherapy and
psychopharmacology. In recent years, 2 studies showed that placebo benefits were 
lower when the treated subjects were told that the placebo, presented as an
active treatment, cost less. One of these studies had assessed motor and other
outcomes in Parkinson disease patients; the other had assessed analgesia in paid,
healthy volunteers to whom electric shocks were administered. The implication of 
the finding that lower treatment cost may diminish treatment gains is that
patients who receive generic medicines may have lower expectations and may
consequently derive less placebo-related benefit. This could be of concern in
psychiatric disorders that are characterized by a large placebo response.
Although the 2 "placebo cost" studies cannot be easily generalized to clinical
and especially psychiatric contexts, clinicans should consider offering
reassurance to patients receiving generic drugs that cost, per se, has no bearing
on treatment-related benefit.

© Copyright 2015 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

PMID: 25919852  [PubMed - in process]


66. Psychogeriatrics. 2015 Apr 27. doi: 10.1111/psyg.12128. [Epub ahead of print]

Hypochondriasis as an early manifestation of dementia with Lewy bodies: an
autopsied case report.

Fujishiro H(1), Iritani S, Sekiguchi H, Habuchi C, Torii Y, Matsunaga S, Ozaki N,
Yoshida M, Fujita K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sleep Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya University, 
Nagoya, Japan.

Discrepancies between clinical and pathological diagnoses of dementia with Lewy
bodies (DLB) may occur because the full disease progression remains unclear,
especially during the early stage. Herein, we report the case of a 78-year-old
Japanese man with hypochondriasis who had autopsy-confirmed limbic-type DLB
pathology. He exhibited no core clinical features of DLB. We attempted to
identify the clinicopathological correlations in the early stages of DLB. At the 
age of 77, he became hypochondriacal and exhibited progressive cognitive decline 
after the death of his wife. He was concerned about his poor physical condition, 
but hospital examinations did not identify any overtly abnormal findings. At 78
years of age, he consulted a neurologist with complaints of facial numbness and
irritability. Neurological examination revealed no overt abnormality, and he
scored 21 points on the Mini-Mental State Examination. Magnetic resonance imaging
of the brain showed mild bilateral ventricular enlargement. The patient was
clinically diagnosed as having possible Alzheimer's disease. Approximately 1
month after his consult, he died of acute pneumonia in a psychiatric hospital to 
which he had been admitted for severe aggressive behaviour. He exhibited no core 
clinical features pointing towards a clinical diagnosis of DLB. Neuropathological
investigation revealed limbic-type Lewy body disease with concurrent minimum
Alzheimer-type pathology, which corresponds to high-likelihood DLB pathology
based on the Third Consortium DLB pathological criteria. The patient had minimum 
nigral degeneration, which is consistent with the absence of parkinsonism. This
autopsied case suggests that some DLB patients exhibit hypochondriasis in the
early stage of the disease, even if they lack the core clinical features of DLB.

© 2015 The Authors. Psychogeriatrics © 2015 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

PMID: 25919332  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


67. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Apr 28. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2015.61. [Epub ahead of print]

Vascular parkinsonism-characteristics, pathogenesis and treatment.

Korczyn AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University,
Ramat Aviv 69978, Israel.

Parkinson disease is a primary degenerative disease of the brain, but
parkinsonism can also result from a variety of vascular disorders. Vascular
parkinsonism (VP) most frequently presents as lower body parkinsonism, a
condition that is accompanied by the development of white matter lesions (WMLs)
and lacunes in the brain. Patients with lower body parkinsonism exhibit gait
impairment and go on to develop urinary incontinence, abnormal pyramidal
responses and cognitive decline. However, WMLs and lacunes are also common
observations among elderly individuals who do not have parkinsonism, which causes
difficulty in determining the pathogenetic mechanisms that lead to VP. In
addition, imaging studies suggest that many pathological and clinical features
are common to VP and Binswanger disease, a type of small vessel vascular
dementia. This Review summarizes current understanding of the clinical
characteristics of VP, as well as knowledge gained from neuroimaging and nuclear 
imaging of the pathological features of VP. The lack of current treatment
options, and the emergence of new therapies such as cerebrospinal fluid drainage,
are also discussed. Finally, consideration is given to whether the overlap
between VP and Binswanger disease means that these two disorders should be
considered as part of the same disease entity.

PMID: 25917706  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


68. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Apr 25;760:129-135. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.04.021.
[Epub ahead of print]

A natural compound macelignan protects midbrain dopaminergic neurons from
inflammatory degeneration via microglial arginase-1 expression.

Kiyofuji K(1), Kurauchi Y(2), Hisatsune A(2), Seki T(1), Mishima S(3), Katsuki
H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemico-Pharmacological Sciences, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan. (2)Priority
Organization for Innovation and Excellence, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan;
Program for Leading Graduate Schools "HIGO (Health Life Science:
Interdisciplinary and Glocal Oriented) Program", Kumamoto University, Kumamoto,
Japan. (3)Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences, Graduate School of
Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chubu University, Kasugai, Japan. (4)Department of 
Chemico-Pharmacological Sciences, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan. Electronic address:
hkatsuki@gpo.kumamoto-u.ac.jp.

Inflammatory events involving activated microglia have been recognized to play an
important role in pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders including
Parkinson disease. Compounds regulating activation profiles of microglia may
provide therapeutic benefits for Parkinson disease characterized by degeneration 
of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Here we examined the effect of macelignan, a
compound derived from nutmeg, on inflammatory degeneration of midbrain
dopaminergic neurons. Treatment of midbrain slice cultures with interferon
(IFN)-γ and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) caused a substantial decrease in viable
dopaminergic neurons and an increase in nitric oxide (NO) production indicated by
extracellular nitrite accumulation. Application of macelignan (10μM)
concomitantly with LPS prevented the loss of dopaminergic neurons. Besides
nitrite accumulation, up-regulation of inducible NO synthase protein expression
in response to IFN-γ/LPS was confirmed by Western blotting, and
immunohistochemical examination revealed expression of inducible NO synthase in a
subpopulation of Iba-1-poitive microglia. However, macelignan did not affect any 
of these NO-related parameters. On the other hand, macelignan promoted expression
of arginase-1 in midbrain slice cultures irrespective of the presence or the
absence of IFN-γ/LPS treatment. Arginase-1 expression was mainly localized in a
subpopulation of Iba-1-positive cells. Importantly, the neuroprotective effect of
macelignan was antagonized by N(ω)-hydroxy-nor-l-arginine, a specific arginase
inhibitor. The neuroprotective effect of macelignan was also prevented by GW9662,
a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) antagonist. Overall, these
results indicate that macelignan, a compound with PPARγ agonist activity, can
provide neuroprotective effect on dopaminergic neurons in an arginase-dependent
but NO-independent manner.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25917324  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


69. Neurol Res. 2015 Apr 28:1743132815Y0000000043. [Epub ahead of print]

Gait in drug naïve patients with de novo Parkinson's disease - altered but
symmetric.

Grajić M, Stanković I, Radovanović S, Kostić V.

BACKGROUND: Motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) are typically
asymmetrical. Early stage of PD is characterised with a predominantly unilateral 
appearance of tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia, with or without axial
involvement. Also, studies have demonstrated gait asymmetry in de novo drug naïve
PD patients. Aim of this study was to investigate gait pattern, gait symmetry and
gait variability in early phases of PD.
METHODS: The gait was measured in 40 de novo, drug naïve PD patients and 43
healthy control subjects (HC) while performing a simple walking task. Calculated 
parameters were cycle time (CT), stride length (SL) and swing time (ST), and
their coefficients of variation (CV).
RESULTS: Considering gait parameters, PD patients and HC differed in terms of all
parameters, except for the CV of CT. Analysis of gait symmetry, comparison
between the gait patterns of the left and the right leg in PD patients revealed
no difference for any of the assessed parameters. The majority of the gait
parameters did not differ between left and right legs of HC.
CONCLUSIONS: It can be concluded that even gait was already altered in de novo
drug naive PD patients, gait symmetry remained preserved. The SL was the most
prominent parameter of altered gait in initial stages of PD patients, while the
ST heralded postural asymmetry.

PMID: 25916791  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


70. Alzheimers Dement. 2015 Apr 24. pii: S1552-5260(15)00118-1. doi:
10.1016/j.jalz.2014.12.008. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetic risk of neurodegenerative diseases is associated with mild cognitive
impairment and conversion to dementia.

Adams HH(1), de Bruijn RF(2), Hofman A(3), Uitterlinden AG(4), van Duijn CM(5),
Vernooij MW(1), Koudstaal PJ(6), Ikram MA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the
Netherlands; Department of Radiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the
Netherlands. (2)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam,
the Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands. (3)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam,
the Netherlands. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center,
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. (5)Department of Epidemiology, Genetic Epidemiology
Unit, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. (6)Department of
Neurology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. (7)Department of
Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of
Radiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of
Neurology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic
address: m.a.ikram@erasmusmc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Neurodegenerative diseases are a major cause of cognitive impairment 
and can ultimately lead to dementia. Genome-wide association studies have
uncovered many genetic variants conferring risk of neurodegenerative diseases,
but their role in cognitive impairment remains unexplored.
METHODS: In the prospective, population-based Rotterdam Study, 3605 nondemented
persons aged ≥55 years were genotyped, screened for mild cognitive impairment
(MCI) in 2002 to 2005 and underwent continuous follow-up for dementia until 2012.
Weighted polygenic risk scores of genetic variants for Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), and the frontotemporal lobar degeneration/amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease spectrum (FTLD/ALS) were constructed and investigated
for association with MCI and the subsequent conversion to dementia.
RESULTS: In total, 360 (10.0%) persons had MCI, of whom 147 (4.1%) were amnestic 
and 213 (5.9%) nonamnestic. The AD risk score was associated with both MCI
subtypes (odds ratio for all MCI 1.15 [95% CI, 1.03-1.28]), whereas PD and
FTLD/ALS risk scores were associated only with nonamnestic MCI (odds ratios 1.15 
[1.00-1.32] and 1.19 [1.03-1.37], respectively). The AD risk score, but not PD
and FTLD/ALS risk scores, was associated with an increased risk of dementia
(hazard ratio 1.55 [1.37-1.77]).
CONCLUSIONS: Genetic evidence supports the view that multiple neurodegenerative
pathways lead to MCI and that the subsequent conversion to dementia, primarily of
the AD subtype, is mainly due to the AD pathway(s).

Copyright © 2015 The Alzheimer's Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25916564  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


71. Autophagy. 2015 Apr 3;11(4):595-606. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2015.1034408.

Deubiquitinating enzymes regulate PARK2-mediated mitophagy.

Wang Y(1), Serricchio M, Jauregui M, Shanbhag R, Stoltz T, Di Paolo CT, Kim PK,
McQuibban GA.

Author information: 
(1)a Cell Biology Program ; The Hospital for Sick Children ; Toronto , ON Canada.

The selective degradation of mitochondria by the process of autophagy, termed
mitophagy, is one of the major mechanisms of mitochondrial quality control. The
best-studied mitophagy pathway is the one mediated by PINK1 and PARK2/Parkin.
From recent studies it has become clear that ubiquitin-ligation plays a pivotal
role and most of the focus has been on the role of ubiquitination of
mitochondrial proteins in mitophagy. Even though ubiquitination is a reversible
process, very little is known about the role of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs)
in mitophagy. Here, we report that 2 mitochondrial DUBs, USP30 and USP35,
regulate PARK2-mediated mitophagy. We show that USP30 and USP35 can delay
PARK2-mediated mitophagy using a quantitative mitophagy assay. Furthermore, we
show that USP30 delays mitophagy by delaying PARK2 recruitment to the
mitochondria during mitophagy. USP35 does not delay PARK2 recruitment, suggesting
that it regulates mitophagy through an alternative mechanism. Interestingly,
USP35 only associates with polarized mitochondria, and rapidly translocates to
the cytosol during CCCP-induced mitophagy. It is clear that PARK2-mediated
mitophagy is regulated at many steps in this important quality control pathway.
Taken together, these findings demonstrate an important role of
mitochondrial-associated DUBs in mitophagy. Because defects in mitochondria
quality control are implicated in many neurodegenerative disorders, our study
provides clear rationales for the design and development of drugs for the
therapeutic treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson and
Alzheimer diseases.

PMID: 25915564  [PubMed - in process]


72. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Apr 10;9:124. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00124.
eCollection 2015.

Environmental pollutants as risk factors for neurodegenerative disorders:
Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases.

Chin-Chan M(1), Navarro-Yepes J(1), Quintanilla-Vega B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, CINVESTAV-IPN Mexico City, Mexico.

Neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer (AD) and Parkinson (PD) have
attracted attention in last decades due to their high incidence worldwide. The
etiology of these diseases is still unclear; however the role of the environment 
as a putative risk factor has gained importance. More worryingly is the evidence 
that pre- and post-natal exposures to environmental factors predispose to the
onset of neurodegenerative diseases in later life. Neurotoxic metals such as
lead, mercury, aluminum, cadmium and arsenic, as well as some pesticides and
metal-based nanoparticles have been involved in AD due to their ability to
increase beta-amyloid (Aβ) peptide and the phosphorylation of Tau protein
(P-Tau), causing senile/amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs)
characteristic of AD. The exposure to lead, manganese, solvents and some
pesticides has been related to hallmarks of PD such as mitochondrial dysfunction,
alterations in metal homeostasis and aggregation of proteins such as α-synuclein 
(α-syn), which is a key constituent of Lewy bodies (LB), a crucial factor in PD
pathogenesis. Common mechanisms of environmental pollutants to increase Aβ,
P-Tau, α-syn and neuronal death have been reported, including the oxidative
stress mainly involved in the increase of Aβ and α-syn, and the reduced
activity/protein levels of Aβ degrading enzyme (IDE)s such as neprilysin or
insulin IDE. In addition, epigenetic mechanisms by maternal nutrient
supplementation and exposure to heavy metals and pesticides have been proposed to
lead phenotypic diversity and susceptibility to neurodegenerative diseases. This 
review discusses data from epidemiological and experimental studies about the
role of environmental factors in the development of idiopathic AD and PD, and
their mechanisms of action.

PMCID: PMC4392704
PMID: 25914621  [PubMed]


73. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 25. doi: 10.1002/mds.26238. [Epub ahead of print]

Novel candidate blood-based transcriptional biomarkers of Machado-Joseph disease.

Raposo M(1), Bettencourt C, Maciel P, Gao F, Ramos A, Kazachkova N, Vasconcelos
J, Kay T, Rodrigues AJ, Bettencourt B, Bruges-Armas J, Geschwind D, Coppola G,
Lima M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Research in Natural Resources (CIRN), University of the Azores,
Ponta Delgada, Portugal; Institute for Molecular and Cell Biology (IBMC),
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Machado-Joseph disease (or spinocerebellar ataxia type 3) is a late-onset
polyglutamine neurodegenerative disorder caused by a mutation in the ATXN3 gene, 
which encodes for the ubiquitously expressed protein ataxin-3. Previous studies
on cell and animal models have suggested that mutated ataxin-3 is involved in
transcriptional dysregulation. Starting with a whole-transcriptome profiling of
peripheral blood samples from patients and controls, we aimed to confirm abnormal
expression profiles in Machado-Joseph disease and to identify promising
up-regulated genes as potential candidate biomarkers of disease status. The
Illumina Human V4-HT12 array was used to measure transcriptome-wide gene
expression in peripheral blood samples from 12 patients and 12 controls.
Technical validation and validation in an independent set of samples were
performed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Based on the
results from the microarray, twenty six genes, found to be up-regulated in
patients, were selected for technical validation by quantitative real-time PCR
(validation rate of 81% for the up-regulation trend). Fourteen of these were
further tested in an independent set of 42 patients and 35 controls; 10 genes
maintained the up-regulation trend (FCGR3B, CSR2RA, CLC, TNFSF14, SLA, P2RY13,
FPR2, SELPLG, YIPF6, and GPR96); FCGR3B, P2RY13, and SELPLG were significantly
up-regulated in patients when compared with controls. Our findings support the
hypothesis that mutated ataxin-3 is associated with transcription dysregulation, 
detectable in peripheral blood cells. Furthermore, this is the first report
suggesting a pool of up-regulated genes in Machado-Joseph disease that may have
the potential to be used for fine phenotyping of this disease. © 2015
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25914309  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


74. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 25. doi: 10.1002/mds.26237. [Epub ahead of print]

Impact of Parkinson's disease risk loci on age at onset.

Lill CM(1), Hansen J, Olsen JH, Binder H, Ritz B, Bertram L.

Author information: 
(1)Platform for Genome Analytics, Institutes of Neurogenetics & Integrative and
Experimental Genomics, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to assess whether recently identified
Parkinson's disease (PD) risk genes also influence age at onset in PD.
METHODS: We genotyped 23 single-nucleotide polymorphisms in 1,526 Danish PD
patients and performed linear regression analyses with age at onset. The combined
impact of PD risk loci on age at onset was assessed by linear regression analyses
using a weighted genetic risk score.
RESULTS: The strongest effects were observed with rs12726330 in GBA
(beta = -3.63, P = 2.0 × 10(-5) ) and rs34311866 in TMEM175/GAK (beta = -1.19, P 
= 4.0 × 10(-3) ), corresponding to a 3.6-y and 1.2-y decrease of age at onset per
risk allele, respectively. The weighted genetic risk score yielded significant
association with reduced onset age (P = 3.98 × 10(-3) ), although the variance
explained was small (0.6%), and the effect was mostly driven by polymorphisms in 
GBA and TMEM175/GAK.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our study indicates that GBA and TMEM175/GAK significantly 
alter age at onset in PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25914293  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


75. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 25. doi: 10.1002/mds.26236. [Epub ahead of print]

Rivastigmine for mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson disease: A
placebo-controlled study.

Mamikonyan E(1), Xie SX, Melvin E, Weintraub D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in Parkinson's disease (PD) may be associated
with subtle functional impairment and worse quality of life. The objective of
this study was to determine the efficacy and tolerability of rivastigmine for
PD-MCI. Patients with PD-MCI (n = 28) were enrolled in a 24-week, randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, single-site study of the
rivastigmine transdermal patch. The primary outcome measure was the Alzheimer's
Disease Cooperative Study-Clinical Global Impression of Change (ADCS-CGIC).
Secondary outcomes included the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Dementia
Rating Scale-2 (DRS-2), Neurotrax computerized cognitive battery, the Everyday
Cognition Battery (ECB), and the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-8).
Twenty-six participants (92.9%) completed both study phase assessments, and 23
(82.1%) completed both phases on study medication. The CGIC response rate
demonstrated a trend effect in favor of rivastigmine (regression coefficient for 
interaction term in linear mixed-effects model = 0.44, F[df] = 3.01 [1, 24],
P = 0.096). For secondary outcomes, a significant rivastigmine effect on the ECB 
(regression coefficient = -2.41, F[df] = 5.81 [1, 22.05], P = 0.03) was seen, but
no treatment effect was found on any cognitive measures. Trend effects also
occurred in favor of rivastigmine on the PDQ-8 (regression coefficient = 4.55,
F[df] = 3.93 [1, 14. 79], P = 0.09) and the State Anxiety Inventory (regression
coefficient = -1.24, F[df] = 3.17 [1, 33], P = 0.08). Rivastigmine in PD-MCI
showed a trend effect for improvements on a global rating of cognition,
disease-related health status, and anxiety severity, and significant improvement 
on a performance-based measure of cognitive abilities. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25914281  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


76. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 25. doi: 10.1002/mds.26229. [Epub ahead of print]

Subthalamic nucleus stimulation improves parkinsonian gait via brainstem
locomotor centers.

Weiss PH(1), Herzog J, Pötter-Nerger M, Falk D, Herzog H, Deuschl G, Volkmann J, 
Fink GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, University of Cologne, Köln,
Germany; Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-3), 
Research Center Jülich, Jülich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Subthalamic deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) can ameliorate gait
disturbances in Parkinson's disease (PD). Using motor imagery and positron
emission tomography (PET), we investigated how STN-DBS interacts with supraspinal
locomotor centers in PD.
METHODS: Ten PD patients with bilateral STN-DBS actually walked or stood still
under STN-DBS ON or OFF conditions. Directly thereafter, subjects imagined
walking or standing while changes in regional cerebral blood flow were measured
by PET.
RESULTS: Independent of STN-DBS, imagined walking distance correlated with
imagery duration. Compared with STN-DBS OFF, STN-DBS ON improved actual gait and 
increased imagined walking distance. Imagery of gait (vs. stance) induced
activity in the supplementary motor area and the right superior parietal lobule
for both STN-DBS conditions. The improvement of imagined gait during STN-DBS ON
led to activity changes in the pedunculopontine nucleus/mesencephalic locomotor
region (PPN/MLR).
CONCLUSIONS: Data suggest that STN-DBS improves Parkinsonian gait by modulating
PPN/MLR activity. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25914247  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


77. Mar Pollut Bull. 2015 Apr 22. pii: S0025-326X(15)00192-7. doi:
10.1016/j.marpolbul.2015.04.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Impact of cigarette butt leachate on tidepool snails.

Booth DJ(1), Gribben P(2), Parkinson K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Fish Ecology Lab, School of Life Sciences, University of Technology, Sydney,
PO Box 123, Broadway, New South Wales 2007, Australia. Electronic address:
David.Booth@uts.edu.au. (2)Centre for Marine Bio-Innovation and School of
Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia. (3)Fish Ecology Lab, School of Life
Sciences, University of Technology, Sydney, PO Box 123, Broadway, New South Wales
2007, Australia.

In urban areas, cigarette butts are the most common discarded refuse articles. In
marine intertidal zones, they often fall into tidepools. We tested how common
intertidal molluscs were affected by butt leachate in a laboratory experiment,
where snails were exposed to various leachate concentrations. Mortality was very 
high, with all species showing 100% mortality at the full leachate concentration 
(5 butts per litre and 2h soak time) after 8days. However, Austrocochlea porcata 
showed higher mortality than the other 2 species at lower concentrations (10%,
25%) which may affect the relative abundance of the 3 snails under different
concentrations of leachate pollution. Also, sublethal effects of leachate on
snail activity were observed, with greater activity of Nerita atramentosa than
the other 2 species at higher concentrations, suggesting it is more resilient
than the other 2 species. While human health concerns predominate with respect to
smoking, we show strong lethal and sublethal (via behavioural modifications)
impacts of discarded butts on intertidal organisms, with even closely-related
taxa responding differently.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25913792  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


78. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Apr 23. pii: S0005-2736(15)00131-5. doi:
10.1016/j.bbamem.2015.04.008. [Epub ahead of print]

The Parkinson-associated human P5B-ATPase ATP13A2 protects against the
iron-induced cytotoxicity.

Rinaldi DE(1), Corradi GR(1), Cuesta LM(1), Adamo HP(2), de Tezanos Pinto F(3).

Author information: 
(1)From IQUIFIB-Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires,
Junín 956, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina. (2)From IQUIFIB-Facultad de Farmacia y
Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Junín 956, Buenos Aires 1113, Argentina.
Electronic address: hpadamo@qb.ffyb.uba.ar. (3)From IQUIFIB-Facultad de Farmacia 
y Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Junín 956, Buenos Aires 1113,
Argentina. Electronic address: ftpinto@qb.ffyb.uba.ar.

P-type ion pumps are membrane transporters that have been classified into five
subfamilies termed P1-P5. The ion transported by the P5-ATPases is not known.
Five genes named ATP13A1-ATP13A5 that belong to the P5-ATPase group are present
in humans. Loss-of-function mutations in the ATP13A2 gene (PARK9, OMIM 610513)
underlay a form of Parkinson's disease (PD) known as the Kufor-Rakeb syndrome
(KRS), which belongs to the group of syndromes of neurodegeneration with brain
iron accumulation (NBIA). Here we report that the cytotoxicity induced by iron
exposure was two-fold reduced in CHO cells stably expressing the ATP13A2
recombinant protein (ATP13A2). Moreover, the iron content in ATP13A2 cells was
lower than control cells stably expressing an inactive mutant of ATP13A2. ATP13A2
expression caused an enlargement of lysosomes and late endosomes. ATP13A2 cells
exhibited a reduced iron-induced lysosome membrane permeabilization (LMP). These 
results suggest that ATP13A2 overexpression improves the lysosome membrane
integrity and protects against the iron-induced cell damage.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25912790  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


79. Eur J Neurol. 2015 Apr 23. doi: 10.1111/ene.12709. [Epub ahead of print]

The olfactory bulb volume in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease.

Paschen L(1), Schmidt N, Wolff S, Cnyrim C, van Eimeren T, Zeuner KE, Deuschl G, 
Witt K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel Campus, 
Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Kiel, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: This study addresses the question of whether the
neuropathological findings on the olfactory bulb (OB) in idiopathic Parkinson's
disease (IPD) correspond to a detectable change in volume of the OB.
Additionally, the relationship between OB volume and residual olfactory function,
clinical disease characteristics and age are investigated.
METHODS: Fifty-two IPD patients were investigated and compared to 31 healthy
age-matched controls. All participants were scanned using a 3 T magnetic
resonance imaging MRI scanner including a T2 DRIVE sequence in coronal slices
through the OB. The OB volumes were measured via manual segmentation of the OB.
Olfactory testing was carried out using the Sniffin' Sticks test battery.
RESULTS: The OB volume in the IPD group was 42.1 mm³ (SD ± 11.6) for the right
and 41.5 mm³ (SD ± 11.7) for the left OB and showed no difference from the
controls. Additionally, there were no significant correlations between OB volume 
and disease characteristics such as disease duration or Unified Parkinson's
Disease Rating Scale motor score. Likewise, patients' residual smell function did
not correlate with their OB volume. In contrast, controls indicated a correlation
between smell function and OB volume.
CONCLUSION: The study shows that high resolution MRI does not show a detectable
volume loss of the OB in PD patients. It is concluded that OB measurement using
in vivo high resolution MRI at 3 T is not helpful to identify IPD.

© 2015 EAN.

PMID: 25912367  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


80. Nucl Med Biol. 2015 Apr 6. pii: S0969-8051(15)00061-X. doi:
10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2015.03.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Brain uptake of a non-radioactive pseudo-carrier and its effect on the
biodistribution of [(18)F]AV-133 in mouse brain.

Wu X(1), Zhou X(1), Zhang S(1), Zhang Y(1), Deng A(1), Han J(1), Zhu L(2), Kung
HF(3), Qiao J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Radiopharmaceuticals, Ministry of Education, College of
Chemistry, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China. (2)Key Laboratory of
Radiopharmaceuticals, Ministry of Education, College of Chemistry, Beijing Normal
University, Beijing, China; Center of Parkinson's Disease, Beijing Institute for 
Brain Disorders, Beijing, China. Electronic address: zhulin@bnu.edu.cn. (3)Center
of Parkinson's Disease, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Radiopharmaceuticals, Ministry of Education, College of
Chemistry, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China. Electronic address:
qiao_jinping@bnu.edu.cn.

INTRODUCTION: 9-[(18)F]Fluoropropyl-(+)-dihydrotetrabenazine ([(18)F]AV-133) is a
new PET imaging agent targeting vesicular monoamine transporter type II (VMAT2). 
To shorten the preparation of [(18)F]AV-133 and to make it more widely available,
a simple and rapid purification method using solid-phase extraction (SPE) instead
of high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) was developed. The SPE method
produced doses containing the non-radioactive pseudo-carrier
9-hydroxypropyl-(+)-dihydrotetrabenazine (AV-149). The objectives of this study
were to evaluate the brain uptake of AV-149 by UPLC-MS/MS and its effect on the
biodistribution of [(18)F]AV-133 in the brains of mice.
METHODS: The mice were injected with a bolus including [(18)F]AV-133 and
different doses of AV-149. Brain tissue and blood samples were harvested. The
effect of different amounts of AV-149 on [(18)F]AV-133 was evaluated by
quantifying the brain distribution of radiolabelled tracer [(18)F]AV-133. The
concentrations of AV-149 in the brain and plasma were analyzed using a UPLC-MS/MS
method.
RESULTS: The concentrations of AV-149 in the brain and plasma exhibited a good
linear relationship with the doses. The receptor occupancy curve was fit, and the
calculated ED50 value was 8.165mg/kg. The brain biodistribution and regional
selectivity of [(18)F]AV-133 had no obvious differences at AV-149 doses lower
than 0.1mg/kg. With increasing doses of AV-149, the brain biodistribution of
[(18)F]AV-133 changed significantly.
CONCLUSION: The results are important to further support that the improved
radiolabelling procedure of [(18)F]AV-133 using an SPE method may be suitable for
routine clinical application.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25910857  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


81. Folia Neuropathol. 2015;53(1):29-40.

Cabergoline protects dopaminergic neurons against rotenone-induced cell death in 
primary mesencephalic cell culture.

Meinel J, Radad K, Rausch WD, Reichmann H, Gille G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ass. Prof. Gabriele Gille, Department of Neurology, Technical University,
Fetscherstr. 74, 01307 Dresden, Germany, e-mail:
Gabriele.Gille@uniklinikum-dresden.de.

In the present study, primary mesencephalic cell cultures prepared from embryonic
mouse mesencephala were used to investigate the neuroprotective effect of
cabergoline, an ergoline D2 receptor agonist, against the pesticide and
neurotoxin rotenone relevant to Parkinson disease (PD). Treatment of cultures
with cabergoline alone significantly increased the number of tyrosine hydroxylase
immunoreactive (THir) neurons and reduced the release of lactate dehydrogenase
(LDH) into the culture medium compared to untreated controls. Against rotenone
toxicity, cabergoline significantly rescued degenerating THir neurons, reduced
the release of LDH into the culture medium and improved the morphology of
surviving THir neurons. The neuroprotective effects afforded by cabergoline were 
independent of dopaminergic stimulation as blocking of dopamine receptors by the 
dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride did not prevent them. Furthermore,
rotenone-induced formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was significantly
reduced by cabergoline. Although cabergoline increased the glutathione (GSH)
content in the culture, the protective effect for dopaminergic neurons seemed not
to be predominantly mediated by increasing GSH, as depletion of GSH by
L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), a GSH biosynthesis inhibitor, did not
prevent cabergoline-mediated neuroprotection of THir neurons in rotenone-treated 
cultures. Moreover, cabergoline significantly increased the ATP/protein ratio in 
primary mesencephalic cell cultures when added alone or prior to rotenone
treatment. These results indicate a neuroprotective effect of cabergoline for
dopaminergic neurons against rotenone toxicity. This effect was independent of
dopamine receptor stimulation and was at least partially mediated by reducing ROS
production and increasing the ATP/protein ratio.

PMID: 25909873  [PubMed - in process]


82. J Neurosurg. 2015 Apr 24:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Anatomy of the subthalamic nucleus, with correlation of deep brain stimulation.

Akakın A(1), Yılmaz B, Kılıç T, Rhoton AL Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine, Bahcesehir University,
Istanbul, Turkey; and.

OBJECT The goal in this study was to examine the cadaveric anatomy of the
subthalamic nucleus (STN) and to analyze the implications of the findings for
deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery. METHODS Five formalin-fixed human cerebrums
were dissected using the Klingler fiber dissection technique. Digital photographs
of the dissections were fused to obtain an anaglyphic image. RESULTS The STN was 
located posteroinferior to the anterior corticospinal fibers, posterosuperior to 
the substantia nigra, and anteromedial to the red nucleus, lenticular fasciculus,
and thalamic fasciculus. The subthalamic region is ventral to the thalamus,
medial to the internal capsule, and lateral and caudal to the hypothalamus. The
nuclei found within the subthalamic region include the STN. The relationship
between the STN and surrounding structures, which are not delineated sharply, is 
described. CONCLUSIONS The fiber dissection technique supports the presence of
the subthalamic region as an integrative network in humans and offers the
potential to aid in understanding the impacts of DBS surgery of the STN in
patients with Parkinson disease. Further research is needed to define the exact
role of the STN in the integrative process.

PMID: 25909575  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


83. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2015 Apr;2(4):417-26. doi: 10.1002/acn3.185. Epub 2015
Feb 28.

Variants associated with Gaucher disease in multiple system atrophy.

Mitsui J(1), Matsukawa T(1), Sasaki H(2), Yabe I(2), Matsushima M(2), Dürr A(3), 
Brice A(3), Takashima H(4), Kikuchi A(5), Aoki M(5), Ishiura H(1), Yasuda T(1),
Date H(1), Ahsan B(1), Iwata A(1), Goto J(1), Ichikawa Y(1), Nakahara Y(1),
Momose Y(1), Takahashi Y(1), Hara K(6), Kakita A(7), Yamada M(8), Takahashi H(7),
Onodera O(6), Nishizawa M(6), Watanabe H(9), Ito M(9), Sobue G(9), Ishikawa
K(10), Mizusawa H(10), Kanai K(11), Hattori T(11), Kuwabara S(11), Arai K(12),
Koyano S(13), Kuroiwa Y(14), Hasegawa K(15), Yuasa T(16), Yasui K(17), Nakashima 
K(17), Ito H(18), Izumi Y(19), Kaji R(19), Kato T(20), Kusunoki S(21), Osaki
Y(22), Horiuchi M(23), Kondo T(24), Murayama S(25), Hattori N(26), Yamamoto
M(27), Murata M(28), Satake W(29), Toda T(29), Filla A(30), Klockgether T(31),
Wüllner U(31), Nicholson G(32), Gilman S(33), Tanner CM(34), Kukull WA(35), Stern
MB(36), Lee VM(37), Trojanowski JQ(37), Masliah E(38), Low PA(39), Sandroni
P(39), Ozelius LJ(40), Foroud T(41), Tsuji S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Neurology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of 
Medicine Sapporo, Japan. (3)AP-HP, Hôpital de la Salpêtrière, Département de
Génétique et Cytogénétique, Inserm, U 1127, Cnrs, UMR 7225, 3- Sorbonne
Université, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UM 75, ICM F-75013, Paris, France. (4)Department 
of Neurology and Geriatrics, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and 
Dental Sciences Kagoshima, Japan. (5)Department of Neurology, Tohoku University
School of Medicine Sendai, Japan. (6)Department of Neurology, Brain Research
Institute, Niigata University Niigata, Japan. (7)Department of Pathology, Brain
Research Institute, Niigata University Niigata, Japan. (8)Department of
Pathology, Brain Research Institute, Niigata University Niigata, Japan ;
Department of Clinical Research, Saigata Medical Center, National Hospital
Organization Niigata, Japan. (9)Department of Neurology, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine Nagoya, Japan. (10)Department of Neurology and
Neurological Science, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Science, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University Tokyo, Japan. (11)Department of Neurology, Chiba
University School of Medicine Chiba, Japan. (12)Division of Neurology, National
Hospital Organization, Chiba East Hospital Chiba, Japan. (13)Department of
Clinical Neurology and Stroke Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama
City University Yokohama, Japan. (14)Department of Neurology, Teikyo University
School of Medicine University Hospital Mizonokuchi, Kawasaki, Japan. (15)Division
of Neurology, National Hospital Organization, Sagamihara National Hospital
Sagamihara, Japan. (16)Department of Neurology, Kamagaya-Chiba Medical Center for
Intractable Neurological Disease, Kamagaya General Hospital Chiba, Japan.
(17)Division of Neurology, Department of Brain and Neurosciences, Faculty of
Medicine, Tottori University Yonago, Japan. (18)Department of Neurology, Mifukai 
Vihara Hananosato Hospital Hiroshima, Japan. (19)Department of Clinical
Neuroscience, Institute of Health Biosciences, University of Tokushima Graduate
School Tokushima, Japan. (20)Departments of Neurology, Hematology, Metabolism,
Endocrinology, and Diabetology, Faculty of Medicine, Yamagata University
Yamagata, Japan. (21)Department of Neurology, Kinki University School of Medicine
Osaka, Japan. (22)Department of Geriatrics, Cardiology and Neurology, Kochi
Medical School Nankoku, Japan. (23)Division of Neurology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, St. Marianna University School of Medicine Kawasaki, Japan.
(24)Department of Neurology, Wakayama Medical University Wakayama, Japan.
(25)Department of Neuropathology and the Brain Bank for Aging Research, Tokyo
Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital and Institute of Gerontology Tokyo, Japan.
(26)Department of Neurology, Juntendo University School of Medicine Tokyo, Japan.
(27)Department of Neurology, Kagawa Prefectural Central Hospital Takamatsu,
Japan. (28)Department of Neurology, National Center Hospital of Neurology and
Psychiatry Tokyo, Japan. (29)Division of Neurology/Molecular Brain Science, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine Kobe, Japan. (30)Department of
Neurological Sciences, University Federico II Naples, Italy. (31)Department of
Neurology, University of Bonn and German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases
(DZNE) Bonn, Germany. (32)Concord Hospital, University of Sydney at the
Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) Research Institute Sydney,
Australia. (33)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Ann Arbor,
Michigan. (34)Parkinson's Disease Research Education and Clinical Center, San
Francisco Veteran's Affairs Medical Center San Francisco, California.
(35)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington School of Public Health 
Seattle, Washington. (36)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Center,
Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (37)Institute on Aging, Udall
Parkinson's Research Center, Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research and
the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine 
at the University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (38)Department of
Neurosciences, University of California San Diego San Diego, California.
(39)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic Rochester, Minnesota. (40)Departments of
Genetics and Genomic Sciences and Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai New York, New York. (41)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics,
Indiana University School of Medicine Indianapolis, Indiana.

OBJECTIVE: Glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) variants that cause Gaucher disease are 
associated with Parkinson disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). To
investigate the role of GBA variants in multiple system atrophy (MSA), we
analyzed GBA variants in a large case-control series.
METHODS: We sequenced coding regions and flanking splice sites of GBA in 969 MSA 
patients (574 Japanese, 223 European, and 172 North American) and 1509 control
subjects (900 Japanese, 315 European, and 294 North American). We focused solely 
on Gaucher-disease-causing GBA variants.
RESULTS: In the Japanese series, we found nine carriers among the MSA patients
(1.65%) and eight carriers among the control subjects (0.89%). In the European
series, we found three carriers among the MSA patients (1.35%) and two carriers
among the control subjects (0.63%). In the North American series, we found five
carriers among the MSA patients (2.91%) and one carrier among the control
subjects (0.34%). Subjecting each series to a Mantel-Haenszel analysis yielded a 
pooled odds ratio (OR) of 2.44 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.14-5.21) and a
P-value of 0.029 without evidence of significant heterogeneity. Logistic
regression analysis yielded similar results, with an adjusted OR of 2.43 (95% CI 
1.15-5.37) and a P-value of 0.022. Subtype analysis showed that
Gaucher-disease-causing GBA variants are significantly associated with MSA
cerebellar subtype (MSA-C) patients (P = 7.3 × 10(-3)).
INTERPRETATION: The findings indicate that, as in PD and DLB,
Gaucher-disease-causing GBA variants are associated with MSA.

PMCID: PMC4402086
PMID: 25909086  [PubMed]


84. Appl Nurs Res. 2015 May;28(2):86-91. doi: 10.1016/j.apnr.2014.12.008. Epub 2015
Feb 26.

Support supplied by Parkinson's disease specialist nurses to Parkinson's disease 
patients and their spouses.

Hellqvist C(1), Berterö C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, SE-58183 Linköping, Sweden.
Electronic address: carina.hellqvist@lio.se. (2)Division of Nursing Science,
Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linköping University, SE-58183
Linköping, Sweden. Electronic address: carina.bertero@liu.se.

AIM: The purpose of the study was to identify the role of the Parkinson's disease
specialist nurse in providing support both for people with Parkinson's disease
(PD) and their spouses.
BACKGROUND: PD is a neurodegenerative disease with symptoms that affect many
aspects of daily life. In Sweden, specialised nurses called Parkinson's disease
specialist nurses (PD specialist nurses) have been working for over a decade to
support PD patients and their families.
METHOD: A qualitative approach was taken using dyad interviews with each PD
patient and spouse. The analysis was conducted using conventional qualitative
content analysis.
FINDINGS: The analysis resulted in the identification of one overarching
category; competent, professional practice, tailored for the individual. Four
categories: professional competence, nursing practice, continuity of contact and 
emotional support, are distinct but related to each other and show different
nuances of the same phenomenon.
CONCLUSION: The work of PD specialist nurses in providing support to PD patients 
and their relatives should be tailored to individual patients and their families 
as well as including skilled nursing care to relieve the impact of the disease on
daily life.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25908544  [PubMed - in process]


85. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Apr 20. pii: S0028-3908(15)00138-0. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.04.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Heterologous expression and nonsense suppression provide insights into agonist
behavior at α6β2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.

Post MR(1), Limapichat W(1), Lester HA(2), Dougherty DA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 E California Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91125, USA. (2)Division of
Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
CA, USA. (3)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute 
of Technology, 1200 E California Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91125, USA. Electronic
address: dadougherty@caltech.edu.

The α6-containing subtypes of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) are
localized to presynaptic terminals of the dopaminergic pathways of the central
nervous system. Selective ligands for these nAChRs are potentially useful in both
Parkinson's disease and addiction. For these and other goals, it is important to 
distinguish the binding behavior of agonists at the α6-β2 binding site versus
other subtypes. To study this problem, we apply nonsense suppression-based
non-canonical amino acid mutagenesis. We report a combination of four mutations
in α6β2 that yield high-level heterologous expression in Xenopus oocytes. By
varying mRNA injection ratios, two populations were observed with unique
characteristics, likely due to differing stoichiometries. Responses to nine known
nAChR agonists were analyzed at the receptor, and their corresponding EC50 values
and efficacies are reported. The system is compatible with nonsense suppression, 
allowing structure-function studies between Trp149 - a conserved residue on loop 
B found to make a cation-π interaction at several nAChR subtypes - and several
agonists. These studies reveal that acetylcholine forms a strong cation-π
interaction with the conserved tryptophan, while nicotine and TC299423 do not,
suggesting a unique pharmacology for the α6β2 nAChR.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25908401  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


86. Mol Microbiol. 2015 Apr 23. doi: 10.1111/mmi.13041. [Epub ahead of print]

Staphylococcus aureus haem biosynthesis: characterisation of the enzymes involved
in final steps of the pathway.

Lobo SA(1), Scott A, Videira MA, Winpenny D, Gardner M, Palmer MJ, Schroeder S,
Lawrence AD, Parkinson T, Warren MJ, Saraiva LM.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Tecnologia Química e Biológica António Xavier, Universidade Nova 
de Lisboa, Avenida da República (EAN), 2780-157 Oeiras, Portugal.

Haem is a life supporting molecule that is ubiquitous in all major kingdoms. In
Staphylococcus aureus, the importance of haem is highlighted by the presence of
systems both for the exogenous acquisition and endogenous synthesis of this
prosthetic group. In this work, we show that in S. aureus the formation of haem
involves the conversion of coproporphyrinogen III into coproporphyrin III by
coproporphyrin synthase HemY, insertion of iron into coproporphyrin III via
ferrochelatase HemH, and oxidative decarboxylation of Fe-coproporphyrin III into 
protohaem IX by Fe-coproporphyrin oxidase/dehydrogenase HemQ. Together, this
route represents a transitional pathway between the classic pathway and the more 
recently acknowledged alternative biosynthesis machinery. The role of the haem
biosynthetic pathway in the survival of the bacterium was investigated by testing
for inhibitors of HemY. Analogues of acifluorfen are shown to inhibit the
flavin-containing HemY, highlighting that this as a suitable target for the
development of drugs against S. aureus. Moreover, the presence of this
transitional pathway for haem biosynthesis within many Gram-positive pathogenic
bacteria suggests that this route has the potential not only for the design of
antimicrobials but also for the selective discrimination between bacteria
operating different routes to the biosynthesis of haem.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25908396  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


87. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Mar 20. pii: S0022-510X(15)00153-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jns.2015.03.022. [Epub ahead of print]

Multitarget intervention of Fasudil in the neuroprotection of dopaminergic
neurons in MPTP-mouse model of Parkinson's disease.

Zhao YF(1), Zhang Q(2), Xi JY(3), Li YH(4), Ma CG(5), Xiao BG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Institutes of Brain Science and
State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; 
Department of Neurology, Jinshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Electronic address: zhaoyongfei1535@163.com. (2)Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Institutes of Brain Science and State Key Laboratory of Medical
Neurobiology, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. Electronic address:
zhpoor@163.com. (3)Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Institutes of Brain 
Science and State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Fudan University,
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: jianyingxi@yeah.net. (4)Department of
Neurology, Institute of Brain Science, Medical School, Shanxi Datong University, 
Datong, China. Electronic address: lyanhual@126.com. (5)Department of Neurology, 
Institute of Brain Science, Medical School, Shanxi Datong University, Datong,
China; "2011" Collaborative Innovation Center/Department of Encephalopathy and
National Major Clinical Department of Ministry of Health, Third Hospital,
Department of Neurology, Shanxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Taiyuan, China. Electronic address: mhcungen@163.com. (6)Institute of Neurology, 
Huashan Hospital, Institutes of Brain Science and State Key Laboratory of Medical
Neurobiology, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. Electronic address:
bgxiao@shmu.edu.cn.

Recent studies have demonstrated that activation of the Rho-associated kinase
(ROCK) pathway participates in the dopaminergic neuron degeneration and possibly 
in Parkinson's disease (PD). In the current study, we tried to observe the
therapeutic potential of ROCK inhibitor Fasudil against dopaminergic neuron
injury in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-mouse model of PD, 
and explore possible molecular mechanisms by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
(ELISA), western blot and immunofluorescent assays. The results showed that
MPTP-PD mice presented motor deficits, dopaminergic neuron loss, activation of
inflammatory response and oxidative stress as well as ROCK and glycogen synthase 
kinase 3β (GSK-3β) signaling pathways. The administration of Fasudil exhibited
neuroprotective effects against the dopaminergic neurons and improved the motor
function recovery in the MPTP-PD mice, accompanied by the suppression of
inflammatory responses (IL-1β, TNF-α, NF-κB-p65 and TLR-2), and oxidative stress 
(iNOS and gp91Phox), which might be associated with the inhibition of ROCK and
GSK-3β activity. Simultaneously, the administration of Fasudil resulted in the
shift from inflammatory M1 to anti-inflammatory/neurorepair M2 microglia.
Additionally, Fasudil intervention enhanced the expression of anti-oxidative
factors such as NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), Hmox as well as neurotrophic
factor including GDNF. Our observations defined the neuroprotective effects of
Fasudil in MPTP-PD mice, and we found a series of novel effector molecules and
pathways for explaining the neuroprotective effects against dopaminergic neurons.
However, a lot of investigations are warranted to further elucidate the crosstalk
among Fasudil, oxidative stress, inflammatory response, GDNF and ROCK/NF-kB/Nrf2 
pathways in the therapeutic potential of PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25908255  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


88. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Apr 20;289:19-28. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.04.019. [Epub
ahead of print]

The degeneration of dopaminergic synapses in Parkinson's disease: A selective
animal model.

Morales I(1), Sanchez A(2), Rodriguez-Sabate C(3), Rodriguez M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Experimental Neurology, Department of
Physiology Faculty of Medicine, University of La Laguna, La Laguna, Tenerife,
Canary Islands, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. (2)Laboratory of
Neurobiology and Experimental Neurology, Department of Physiology Faculty of
Medicine, University of La Laguna, La Laguna, Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. (4)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Experimental
Neurology, Department of Physiology Faculty of Medicine, University of La Laguna,
La Laguna, Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en 
Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. Electronic
address: mrdiaz@ull.es.

Available evidence increasingly suggests that the degeneration of dopamine
neurons in Parkinson's disease starts in the striatal axons and synaptic
terminals. A selective procedure is described here to study the mechanisms
involved in the striatal denervation of dopaminergic terminals. This procedure
can also be used to analyze mechanisms involved in the dopaminergic
re-innervation of the striatum, and the role of astrocytes and microglia in both 
processes. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were injected in the lateral ventricles with
increasing doses of 6-hydroxydopamine (12-50μg), which generated a dose-dependent
loss of dopaminergic synapses and axons in the striatum, followed by an axonal
sprouting (weeks later) and by a progressive recovery of striatal dopaminergic
synapses (months later). Both the degeneration and regeneration of the
dopaminergic terminals were accompanied by astrogliosis. Because the experimental
manipulations did not induce unspecific damage in the striatal tissue, this
method could be particularly suitable to study the basic mechanisms involved in
the distal degeneration and regeneration of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons,
and the possible role of astrocytes and microglia in the dynamics of both
processes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25907749  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


89. Hum Mutat. 2015 Apr 23. doi: 10.1002/humu.22803. [Epub ahead of print]

The KM-parkin-DB: A Sub-set MutationView Database Specialized for PARK2 (PARKIN) 
Variants.

Mitsuyama S(1), Ohtsubo M, Minoshima S, Shimizu N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Medicine, Keio University School of Medicine.

We previously isolated PARKIN (PARK2) as a gene responsible for a unique sort of 
Parkinson disease, namely Autosomal Recessive Juvenile Parkinsonism (ARJP). In
this study, we surveyed all the available literature describing PARK2 gene/Parkin
protein mutations found in Parkinson disease patients. Only carefully evaluated
data were deposited in the graphical database MutationView
(http://mutview.dmb.med.keio.ac.jp) to construct KM-parkin-DB, an independent
sub-set database. Forty-four articles were selected for data curation regarding
clinical information such as ethnic origins, manifested symptoms, onset age, and 
hereditary patterns as well as mutation details including base changes and
zygosity. A total of 366 cases were collected from 39 ethnic origins and 96
pathogenic mutations were found. PARK2 gene mutations were found also in some
general Parkinson disease patients. The majority (63%) of mutations in PARK2 were
restricted to two particular domains (UBL and RING1) of the Parkin protein. In
these domains, two major mutations, a large deletion (DelEx3) and a point
mutation (p.Arg275Trp), were located This article is protected by copyright. All 
rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25907632  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


90. Neuroscience. 2015 Apr 20. pii: S0306-4522(15)00367-X. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.04.026. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties of a novel non-thiazolidinedione
PPARγ agonist in vitro and in MPTP-treated mice.

Lecca D(1), Nevin DK(2), Mulas G(1), Casu MA(3), Diana A(1), Rossi D(4),
Sacchetti G(4), Carta AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Cagliari, Italy. (2)School of
Biochemistry & Immunology, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. (3)CNR-Institute of 
Translational Pharmacology, U.O.S. of Cagliari, Italy. (4)Department of Life
Science and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Italy.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)γ is a potential pharmacological
target for disease-modification in Parkinson's disease (PD), mainly acting by
modulating the neuroinflammatory response. However, currently available agonists 
thiazolidinediones (TZDs) present limitations due to safety concerns. We
evaluated a novel thiobarbituric-like compound MDG548, which acts as a functional
PPARγ agonist displaying higher and selective binding affinity as compared to
TZDs. Neuroprotection by MDG548 was tested in vitro and in a mouse MPTP model of 
PD, and neuroinflammation was investigated as a putative underlying mechanism.
Viability assay on rat cortical neurons showed lack of cytotoxic effect in the
dose-range of 100nM-10μM, which was therefore used for testing in vitro
protection against H2O2 and MPP+ neurotoxicity. MDG548 dose-dependently increased
cell viability of rat cortical neurons co-treated with H2O2 or pre-exposed to
MDG548 prior to H2O2. Moreover, MDG548 induced neuroprotection in MPP+-treated
PC12 cells. NF-kB activation was investigated to assess anti-inflammatory
activity. MDG548 dose-dependently decreased NF-kB activation induced by LPS
(100ng/100ml) in HEK-Blue-hTLR4 cells. Given the supposed cancer risk of other
PPARγ agonists, Ames test for genotoxicity was performed in Salmonella
typhimurium TA100 and TA98 strains, showing that MDG548 was not genotoxic. In
vivo, BL/6J mice were treated with MPTP (20mg/kg i.p. once/day for 4days) in
association with saline or MDG548 (2, 5, 10mg/kg i.p.). Stereological counting
showed that MDG548 prevented the MPTP-induced reduction in TH-positive cells in
the substantia nigra compacta (SNc) at all doses tested. Moreover, MDG548 reduced
reactive microglia and iNOS induction in the SNc. MDG548, being a non-TZD
compound with high PPARγ affinity, void of genotoxicity, and with in vitro as
well as in vivo neuroprotective properties, provides a promising alternative in
the search for safer PPARγ agonists to be tested as potential disease-modifying
drugs in PD.

Copyright © 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25907448  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


91. Nat Commun. 2015 Apr 24;6:6947. doi: 10.1038/ncomms7947.

Deoxynybomycins inhibit mutant DNA gyrase and rescue mice infected with
fluoroquinolone-resistant bacteria.

Parkinson EI(1), Bair JS(1), Nakamura BA(1), Lee HY(1), Kuttab HI(1), Southgate
EH(1), Lezmi S(2), Lau GW(2), Hergenrother PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Roger Adams Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, 600 South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinary Medicine Basic Sciences Building,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2001 South Lincoln Avenue, Urbana,
Illinois 61802, USA.

Fluoroquinolones are one of the most commonly prescribed classes of antibiotics, 
but fluoroquinolone resistance (FQR) is widespread and increasing. Deoxynybomycin
(DNM) is a natural-product antibiotic with an unusual mechanism of action,
inhibiting the mutant DNA gyrase that confers FQR. Unfortunately, isolation of
DNM is difficult and DNM is insoluble in aqueous solutions, making it a poor
candidate for development. Here we describe a facile chemical route to produce
DNM and its derivatives. These compounds possess excellent activity against FQR
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and vancomycin-resistant Enterococci 
clinical isolates and inhibit mutant DNA gyrase in-vitro. Bacteria that develop
resistance to DNM are re-sensitized to fluoroquinolones, suggesting that
resistance that emerges to DNM would be treatable. Using a DNM derivative, the
first in-vivo efficacy of the nybomycin class is demonstrated in a mouse
infection model. Overall, the data presented suggest the promise of DNM
derivatives for the treatment of FQR infections.

PMID: 25907309  [PubMed - in process]


92. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 14. pii: S1353-8020(15)00134-0. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.04.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Long-lasting isolated freezing of gait with good response to methylphenidate: A
patient with pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration.

Kwon KY(1), Lee HM(1), Kim M(1), Kang SH(1), Koh SB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Parkinson's Disease Center, Korea University Guro 
Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology and Parkinson's Disease Center, Korea University Guro 
Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: parkinson@korea.ac.kr.

PMID: 25907032  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


93. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2015 Apr 8;5:33. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2015.00033.
eCollection 2015.

New insight into the molecular control of bacterial functional amyloids.

Taylor JD(1), Matthews SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Imperial College of 
Science, Technology and Medicine London, UK.

Amyloid protein structure has been discovered in a variety of functional or
pathogenic contexts. What distinguishes the former from the latter is that
functional amyloid systems possess dedicated molecular control systems that
determine the timing, location, and structure of the fibers. Failure to guide
this process can result in cytotoxicity, as observed in several pathologies like 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease. Many gram-negative bacteria produce an
extracellular amyloid fiber known as curli via a multi-component secretion
system. During this process, aggregation-prone, semi-folded curli subunits have
to cross the periplasm and outer-membrane and self-assemble into surface-attached
fibers. Two recent breakthroughs have provided molecular details regarding
periplasmic chaperoning and subunit secretion. This review offers a combined
perspective on these first mechanistic insights into the curli system.

PMCID: PMC4389571
PMID: 25905048  [PubMed - in process]


94. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Apr 8;9:97. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00097. eCollection 
2015.

Mitomycin-treated undifferentiated embryonic stem cells as a safe and effective
therapeutic strategy in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.

Acquarone M(1), de Melo TM(1), Meireles F(2), Brito-Moreira J(3), Oliveira G(4), 
Ferreira ST(3), Castro NG(1), Tovar-Moll F(5), Houzel JC(1), Rehen SK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. (2)D'Or Institute for Research and Education (IDOR) Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil. (3)Institute of Medical Biochemistry Leopoldo de Meis, Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (4)Oswaldo Cruz Institute,
Oswaldo Cruz Foundation Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (5)Institute of Biomedical
Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro, Brazil ; D'Or
Institute for Research and Education (IDOR) Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an incurable progressive neurodegenerative disorder. 
Clinical presentation of PD stems largely from the loss of dopaminergic neurons
in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, motivating experimental strategies of 
replacement based on cell therapy. Transplantation of dopaminergic neurons
derived from embryonic stem cells significantly improves motor functions in
rodent and non-human primate models of PD. However, protocols to generate
dopaminergic neurons from embryonic stem cells generally meet with low efficacy
and high risk of teratoma formation upon transplantation. To address these
issues, we have pre-treated undifferentiated mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs)
with the DNA alkylating agent mitomycin C (MMC) before transplantation. MMC
treatment of cultures prevented tumorigenesis in a 12 week follow-up after mESCs 
were injected in nude mice. In 6-OH-dopamine-lesioned mice, intrastriatal
injection of MMC-treated mESCs markedly improved motor function without tumor
formation for as long as 15 months. Furthermore, we show that halting mitotic
activity of undifferentiated mESCs induces a four-fold increase in dopamine
release following in vitro differentiation. Our findings indicate that treating
mESCs with MMC prior to intrastriatal transplant is an effective to strategy that
could be further investigated as a novel alternative for treatment of PD.

PMCID: PMC4389407
PMID: 25904842  [PubMed]


95. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 22;35(16):6298-306. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4561-14.2015.

Injection of a dopamine type 2 receptor antagonist into the dorsal striatum
disrupts choices driven by previous outcomes, but not perceptual inference.

Lee E(1), Seo M(1), Dal Monte O(1), Averbeck BB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-4415. (2)Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-4415 bruno.averbeck@nih.gov.

Decisions are often driven by a combination of immediate perception and previous 
experience. In this study, we investigated how these two sources of information
are integrated and the neural systems that mediate this process. Specifically, we
injected a dopamine type 1 antagonist (D1A; SCH23390) or a dopamine type 2
antagonist (D2A; eticlopride) into the dorsal striatum while macaques performed a
task in which their choices were driven by perceptual inference and/or
reinforcement of past choices. We found that the D2A affected choices based on
previous outcomes. However, there were no effects of the D2A on choices driven by
perceptual inference. We found that the D1A did not affect perceptual inference
or reinforcement learning. Finally, a Bayesian model applied to the results
suggested that the D2A may be increasing noise in the striatal representation of 
value, perhaps by disrupting the striatal population that normally represents
value.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/356298-09$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4405551
PMID: 25904783  [PubMed - in process]


96. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2015;55(4):243-7. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.55.243.

SCA6 presenting parkinsonism without ataxia-A case report.

Takeshima S(1), Takeda I, Kobatake K, Yamashita T, Abe K, Kuriyama M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Brain Attack Center Ota Memorial Hospital.

A 57-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of bradykinesia. He was
diagnosed with Parkinson disease (Hoehn and Yahr grade 2) and administered
levodopa at the maximum dose of 800 mg. However, his condition did not improve.
While his symptoms were responsive to levodopa therapy, the sensitivity to the
drug was poor. Brain MRI revealed atrophy of the upper vermis and cerebral
hemispheres, and brain SPECT revealed low perfusion in both parietal lobes.
I(123)-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy showed a decrease in the
heart/mediastinum ratio. Striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) density was
evaluated using I(123)-FP-CIT. The patient showed moderately reduced DAT density,
which suggested nigrostriatal dopaminergic damage. His mother was found to have
pure cerebellar ataxia without parkinsonism, and her two siblings also had
celebellar type of multiple system atrophy (MSA-C) and progressive supranuclear
palsy, respectively. Genetic testing revealed that the patient, his mother and
the uncle with MSA-C had spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6). SCA6 presenting
parkinsonism without ataxia is very rare and important for the pathomechanism of 
disease.

PMID: 25904253  [PubMed - in process]


97. Eur J Neurol. 2015 Apr 22. doi: 10.1111/ene.12723. [Epub ahead of print]

Longitudinal assessment of probable rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder
in Parkinson's disease.

Bjørnarå KA(1), Dietrichs E, Toft M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Drammen Hospital, Vestre Viken Hospital Trust,
Drammen, Norway.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behaviour disorder (RBD)
is frequently present in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and may have
prognostic implications. There are few longitudinal studies of RBD in patients
with PD. Our aim was to investigate whether RBD was a persistent feature in a
follow-up study of 107 patients with PD.
METHODS: After a mean follow-up time of 3 years, 96 patients were available for
reassessment. Probable RBD (pRBD) was diagnosed by the REM sleep behaviour
disorder screening questionnaire.
RESULTS: At follow-up, pRBD was found in 49% of the patients, versus 38% at
baseline. The pRBD status remained unchanged in three-quarters of the patients,
whilst 17% had new pRBD symptoms. Disease duration was longer in the pRBD group, 
9.4 vs. 7.6 years (P = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Probable RBD is a persistent feature in PD and probably increases
over time.

© 2015 EAN.

PMID: 25904103  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


98. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2015 Apr 23. doi: 10.1111/1440-1681.12410. [Epub
ahead of print]

Selective blockade of mGlu5 metabotropic glutamate receptors is protective
against hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction in 6-OHDA lesioned Parkinsonian rats.

Ferrigno A(1), Vairetti M, Ambrosi G, Rizzo V, Richelmi P, Blandini F, Armentero 
MT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Pavia, Italy.

Non-motor symptoms including those involving the splanchnic district are present 
in Parkinson's disease (PD). We previously reported that PD-like rats, bearing a 
lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway induced by the injection of 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA), have impaired hepatic mitochondrial function. Glutamate intervenes at
multiple levels in PD and liver pathophysiologies. The metabotropic glutamate
receptor 5 (mGluR5) is abundantly expressed in brain and liver and may represent 
a pharmacological target for PD therapy. We investigated whether and how chronic 
treatment with 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), a well-characterized
mGluR5 antagonist, may influence hepatic function with regard to neuronal cell
loss in PD-like rats. Chronic treatment with MPEP was started immediately (Early)
or 4 weeks after (Delayed) intrastriatal injection of 6-OHDA and lasted 4 weeks. 
Early MPEP treatment significantly prevented the decrease in ATP
production/content and counteracted increased ROS formation in isolated hepatic
mitochondria of PD-like animals. Early MPEP administration also reduced the
toxin-induced neurodegenerative process; improved survival of nigral dopaminergic
neurons correlated with enhanced mitochondrial ATP content and production. ATP
content/production, in turn, negatively correlated with ROS formation suggesting 
that the MPEP-dependent improvement in hepatic function positively influenced
neuronal cell survival. Delayed MPEP treatment had no effect on hepatic
mitochondrial function and neuronal cell loss. Antagonizing mGluR5 may
synergistically act against neuronal cell loss and PD-related hepatic
mitochondrial alterations and may represent an interesting alternative to
non-dopaminergic therapeutic strategies for PD treatment. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25904005  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


99. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 9. pii: S1353-8020(15)00128-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.025. [Epub ahead of print]

Occupational exposure to solvents, metals and welding fumes and risk of
Parkinson's disease.

van der Mark M(1), Vermeulen R(2), Nijssen PC(3), Mulleners WM(4), Sas AM(5), van
Laar T(6), Huss A(7), Kromhout H(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Environmental Epidemiology, Institute for Risk Assessment
Sciences, Utrecht University, P.O. Box 80178, 3508 TD Utrecht, The Netherlands.
Electronic address: m.vandermark@uu.nl. (2)Division of Environmental
Epidemiology, Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht University, P.O.
Box 80178, 3508 TD Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
r.c.h.vermeulen@uu.nl. (3)St Elisabeth Hospital, P.O. Box 90151, 5000 LC Tilburg,
The Netherlands; TweeSteden Hospital, P.O. Box 90107, 5000 LA Tilburg, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: nijssen2@xs4all.nl. (4)Canisius-Wilhelmina
Hospital, P.O. Box 9015, 6500 GS Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
w.mulleners@cwz.nl. (5)Vlietland Hospital, P.O. Box 215, 3100 AE Schiedam, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: asas@vlietlandziekenhuis.nl. (6)University
Medical Center Groningen, P.O. Box 30001, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands.
Electronic address: t.van.laar@umcg.nl. (7)Division of Environmental
Epidemiology, Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht University, P.O.
Box 80178, 3508 TD Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: a.huss@uu.nl.
(8)Division of Environmental Epidemiology, Institute for Risk Assessment
Sciences, Utrecht University, P.O. Box 80178, 3508 TD Utrecht, The Netherlands.
Electronic address: h.kromhout@uu.nl.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the potential association
between occupational exposure to solvents, metals and/or welding fumes and risk
of developing Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: Data of a hospital based case-control study including 444 PD patients
and 876 age and sex matched controls was used. Occupational histories and
lifestyle information of cases and controls were collected in a structured
telephone interview. Exposures to aromatic solvents, chlorinated solvents and
metals were estimated by linking the ALOHA+ job-exposure matrix to the
occupational histories. Exposure to welding fumes was estimated using
self-reported information on welding activities.
RESULTS: No statistically significant associations with any of the studied metal 
and solvent exposures were found. However, for self-reported welding activities
we observed non-statistically significant reduced risk estimates (third tertile
cumulative exposure: OR = 0.51 (95% CI: 0.21-1.24)).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study did not provide support for an increased
chance on developing PD after occupational exposure to aromatic solvents,
chlorinated solvents or exposure to metals. The results showed reduced risk
estimates for welding, which is in line with previous research, but no clear
explanation for these findings is available.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25903042  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


100. Sleep. 2015 Mar 26. pii: sp-00507-14. [Epub ahead of print]

Quantitative Motor Performance and Sleep Benefit in Parkinson Disease.

van Gilst MM, van Mierlo P, Bloem BR, Overeem S.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Many people with Parkinson disease experience "sleep benefit": 
temporarily improved mobility upon awakening. Here we used quantitative motor
tasks to assess the influence of sleep on motor functioning in Parkinson disease.
DESIGN: Eighteen Parkinson patients with and 20 without subjective sleep benefit 
and 20 healthy controls participated. Before and directly after a regular night
sleep and an afternoon nap, subjects performed the timed pegboard dexterity task 
and quantified finger tapping task. Subjective ratings of motor functioning and
mood/ vigilange were included. Sleep was monitored using polysomnography.
RESULTS: On both tasks, patients were overall slower than healthy controls
(night: F2,55 = 16.938, P < 0.001; nap: F2,55 = 15.331, P < 0.001). On the
pegboard task, there was a small overall effect of night sleep (F1,55 = 9.695, P 
= 0.003); both patients and controls were on average slightly slower in the
morning. However, in both tasks there was no sleep*group interaction for
nighttime sleep nor for afternoon nap. There was a modest correlation between the
score on the pegboard task and self-rated motor symptoms among patients (rho =
0.233, P = 0.004). No correlations in task performance and mood/ vigilance or
sleep time/ efficiency were found.
CONCLUSIONS: A positive effect of sleep on motor function is commonly reported by
Parkinson patients. Here we show that the subjective experience of sleep benefit 
is not paralleled by an actual improvement in motor functioning. Sleep benefit
therefore appears to be a subjective phenomenon and not a Parkinson-specific
reduction in symptoms.

Copyright © 2015 Associated Professional Sleep Societies, LLC. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25902811  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


101. Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2015 Jan;8(1):64-7. doi: 10.1016/S1995-7645(14)60189-9.

Influence of simvastatin on dopaminergic neurons of lipopolysaccharide-induced
rat model of Parkinson's disease.

Wang T(1), Cao XB(2), Chen XW(3), Huang PP(2), Zhang T(3), Chen ZB(4), Tang
BS(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 
410008, China; Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical
College, Haikou 570102, China. (2)Department of Neurology, Union Hospital, Tongji
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 43022,
China. (3)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical College,
Haikou 570102, China. (4)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Hainan
Medical College, Haikou 570102, China. Electronic address: chenzb3801@126.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 
410008, China. Electronic address: bstang7398@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the neuroprotective effects of simvastatin on
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD) and the
mechanisms involved.
METHODS: Hemiparkinsonian rat models were induced by stereotaxieal injection of
LPS in the right substantia nigra compacta. After 2 weeks of simvastatin
treatment, rotational behavior test was performed after the intraperitoneal
injection of apomorphine. Expression of tyroxine hydroxylase (TH) and glial
fibrillary acidic protein were analyzed through immunohistochemical staining of
substantia nigra and striatum, and the level of TNF- α was evaluated using
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: Comparing with untreated group, behavioral symptoms of the rats were
significantly less in the rats that received simvastatin treatment. The TH
positive cell count in substantia nigra and striatum were significantly increased
(P<0.05) and TNF- α expression was significantly decreased (P<0.05) in
simvastatin group compared to untreated group.
CONCLUSIONS: Simvastatin could effectively inhibit the activation of astrocytes, 
reduce TNF- α expression, and exert anti-inflammatory effects, and thus protect
the dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra and striatum of the rat model of PD.

Copyright © 2015 Hainan Medical College. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. 
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25901927  [PubMed]


102. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2015 Apr 20. [Epub ahead of print]

TVP1022: a novel cardioprotective drug attenuates left ventricular remodeling
following ischemia/reperfusion in pigs.

Malka A(1), Meerkin D, Barac YD, Malits E, Bachner-Hinenzon N, Carasso S,
Ertracht O, Angel I, Shofti R, Youdim M, Abassi Z, Binah O.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Physiology, 2Rappaport Faculty of Medicine and Research
Institute, Technion, Haifa. 3Department of Cardiology, Shaare Zedek Medical
Center, Jerusalem. 4The Cardiothoracic Department, Rabin Medical Center, Petach
Tikva. 5Analyze IT research institute, Tuval. 6Department of Cardiology, Rambam
Health Care Campus, Haifa. 7Eliachar Research Laboratory, Western Galilee
Hospital, Nahariya. 8Angel Pharmaceutical Consulting & Technologies Ltd, Nes
Ziona. 9Abital Pharma Pipeline Ltd, Tel Aviv, Israel.

BACKGROUND: The current cornerstone treatment of myocardial infarction (MI) is
restoration of coronary blood flow by means of thrombolytic therapy or primary
percutaneous coronary intervention. However, reperfusion of ischemic myocardium
can actually provoke tissue damage, defined as 'ischemia-reperfusion (I/R)
injury'. TVP1022 (the S-isomer of rasagiline (Azilect®), FDA-approved
anti-Parkinson drug) was found to exert cardioprotective activities against
various cardiac insults such as chronic heart failure and I/R in rat models.
Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that TVP1022 will provide cardioprotection
against I/R injury and post-MI remodeling in a pig model.
METHODS: For inducing MI we utilized an I/R model of mid-left anterior descending
artery occlusion for 90 minutes followed by follow-up for 8 weeks in 18 farm pigs
(9 pigs in each group, MI+TVP1022 or MI+Vehicle). Echocardiographic measurements 
were performed and cardiac scar size was calculated using histopathological
methods. For fibrosis evaluation we measured the interstitial collagen volume
fraction in the remote non-infarcted tissue.
RESULTS: TVP1022 administration significantly decreased cardiac scar size,
attenuated left ventricular dilation and improved cardiac function assessed by
segmental circumferential strain analysis. Furthermore, TVP1022 significantly
reduced myocardial fibrosis 8 weeks post-MI.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, these findings indicate that TVP1022 provides prominent
cardioprotection against I/R injury and post-MI remodeling in this I/R pig model.

PMID: 25900266  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


103. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 21. doi: 10.1002/mds.26243. [Epub ahead of print]

The role of ATP13A2 in Parkinson's disease: Clinical phenotypes and molecular
mechanisms.

Park JS(1), Blair NF, Sue CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurogenetics, Kolling Institute of Medical Research, Royal
North Shore Hospital and the University of Sydney, St. Leonards, New South Wales,
Australia.

The importance of ATP13A2 (PARK9) in Parkinson's disease (PD) has emerged with
the discovery that mutations in this gene cause Kufor-Rakeb syndrome, an
autosomal recessive, juvenile-onset form of parkinsonism associated with the
additional clinical triad of spasticity, supranuclear gaze palsy, and dementia.
Eleven independent kindreds with homozygous or compound heterozygous ATP13A2
mutations have been identified. These reports make it clear that the condition
exhibits considerable clinical heterogeneity, with a spectrum of disease even
among family members carrying the same mutation. The relevance of the protein in 
sporadic PD is demonstrated by the presence of single heterozygous ATP13A2
mutations in this group of patients and altered expression of the gene in the
substantia nigra from patients with the disease. The involvement of ATP13A2 in
Zn(2+) homeostasis has recently been demonstrated, with the molecular
consequences of this disturbance causing lysosomal impairment, α-synuclein
accumulation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. These discoveries provide a new
understanding of the role that ATP13A2 plays in the development of PD and
identify a therapeutic target that may ameliorate α-synuclein accumulation and
lysosomal and mitochondrial dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. © 2015
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25900096  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


104. IUBMB Life. 2015 Apr 22. doi: 10.1002/iub.1367. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkinson's disease-associated PINK1 G309D mutation increases abnormal
phosphorylation of Tau.

Ye M(1), Zhou D, Zhou Y, Sun C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Suzhou 215006, Jiangsu Province, China.

Mutations in PINK1 gene have been considered the second most common cause of
Autosomal Recessive Parkinsonism (ARP). So far, different homozygous PINK1
mutations have been identified in different ARP patients. Abnormal
hyperphosphorylation of tau leads to the loss of its biological activity.
Multiple lines of evidence have demonstrated that hyperphosphorylated tau is
associated with Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the
effects of PD associated PINK1 mutations in tau phosphorylation are unknown. In
this study, we investigated the effect of G309D PINK1 mutation in tau
phosphorylation. Cells transfected with mutant G309D PINK1 exhibited a
significant increase in the phosphorylation of tau protein at the PHF-1
(ser396/404) site. The levels of CDK5, an important activator of tau
phosphorylation, did not change in mutant G309D PINK1 transfected cells,
suggesting that CDK5 is not involved in tau phosphorylation induced by mutant
G309D PINK1. Notably, we found that mutant G309D PINK1 significantly reduced
phosphorylation of GSK3β at serine 9, suggesting that alterations in GSK3β
activity play an essential role in mutant G309D PINK1-induced tau phosphorylation
at the PHF-1 site. PP2A activity maintained consistent in mutant G309D PINK1
transfected cells, suggesting that the increased tau hyperphosphorylation is not 
ascribed to reduction in PP2A activity. © 2015 IUBMB Life, 2015.

© 2015 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

PMID: 25899925  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


105. Eur J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 21. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12928. [Epub ahead of print]

Anxiety provoked gait changes are selectively dopa-responsive in parkinson's
disease.

Ehgoetz Martens KA(1), Ellard CG, Almeida QJ.

Author information: 
(1)Sun Life Financial Movement Disorders Research and Rehabilitation Centre,
Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada; Cognitive Neuroscience,
Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

In order to understand how dopamine modulates the effect of anxiety on gait, the 
goal of this study was to use virtual reality to provoke anxiety in PD (in both
ON and OFF states) and quantify its effect on gait. Seventeen PD and 20 HC were
instructed to walk in a virtual environment in two anxiety-provoking conditions: 
(i) across a plank that was located on the GROUND; (ii) across an ELEVATED plank.
All PD participants completed this in both the ON and OFF states, and then were
striated into groups based on baseline trait anxiety scores for further analyses.
Anxiety (skin conductance and self-report) and spatiotemporal aspects of gait
were measured. Overall, the ELEVATED condition resulted in greater skin
conductance levels and self-reported anxiety levels. Additionally, all
participants demonstrated slower gait with increased step-to-step variability
when crossing the ELEVATED plank compared to the plank on the GROUND. Results
showed that dopaminergic treatment selectively improved gait in only the highly
anxious PD group, by significantly improving velocity, step length, step time and
step-to-step variability specifically when walking across the ELEVATED plank (ON 
versus OFF comparison). In conclusion, only highly trait anxious PD benefitted
from dopaminergic treatment, specifically when walking in the anxiety-provoking
environment. Improvements to gait during anxious walking might be a result of
dopaminergic medication acting in two ways: 1) improving the basal ganglia's
capacity to process information and 2) by reducing the load from anxiety and
subsequently making more resources available to effectively process other
competing inputs. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25899750  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


106. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 13. pii: S1353-8020(15)00132-7. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.028. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence and associated features of self-reported freezing of gait in Parkinson
disease: The DEEP FOG study.

Amboni M(1), Stocchi F(2), Abbruzzese G(3), Morgante L(4), Onofrj M(5), Ruggieri 
S(6), Tinazzi M(7), Zappia M(8), Attar M(9), Colombo D(10), Simoni L(11), Ori
A(12), Barone P(13), Antonini A(14); DEEP Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)IDC Hermitage-Capodimonte - Napoli, Italy; Department of Medicine and Surgery,
University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. Electronic address:
marianna.amboni@libero.it. (2)Department of Neurology, Institute of Research and 
Medical Care, IRCCS San Raffaele, Rome, Italy. Electronic address:
fabrizio.stocchi@tin.it. (3)Department of Neurosciences, University of Genoa,
Genoa, Italy. Electronic address: giabbr@unige.it. (4)Department of Neurosciences
University of Messina, Messina, Italy. Electronic address: morgante@unime.it.
(5)CeSI-Centro Studi Invecchiamento Fondazione Università Gabriele D'Annunzio,
Chieti, Italy. Electronic address: onofrj@unich.it. (6)Neurologia Istituto
Mediterraneo Neuromed, Isernia, Italy. Electronic address:
stefano.ruggieri@uniroma1.it. (7)U.O. Neurologia Ospedale Civile Maggiore, Borgo 
Trento, Verona, Italy. Electronic address: michele.tinazzi@ospedaleuniverona.it. 
(8)Clinica Neurologica I Policlinico Universitario, Catania, Italy. Electronic
address: m.zappia@unict.it. (9)Novartis Pharma Italia, Medical Department,
Origgio, Italy. Electronic address: mahmood.attar@novartis.com. (10)Novartis
Pharma Italia, Medical Department, Origgio, Italy. Electronic address:
delia.colombo@novartis.com. (11)Medidata srl, Modena, Italy. Electronic address: 
l.simoni@medidata.it. (12)Medidata srl, Modena, Italy. Electronic address:
a.ori@medidata.it. (13)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Salerno,
Salerno, Italy. Electronic address: pbarone@unisa.it. (14)Department for
Parkinson's Disease, IRCCS San Camillo, Venice, Italy. Electronic address:
angelo3000@yahoo.com.

Freezing of Gait (FOG) is a common and disabling symptom in patients with
Parkinson disease (PD). The relationship between FOG and dopaminergic medication 
is complex. The aim of the present study was to estimate the prevalence of
self-reported FOG, its associated clinical features, and its relationship with
wearing-off in a wide PD population. This is an observational multicenter study
of 634 consecutive non-demented PD patients. Patients were identified either as
freezers or non-freezers based on item-3 of the Freezing of Gait-Questionnaire.
FOG was then classified as on, off and onoff freezing based on its relationship
with wearing-off. Patients were assessed with Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating 
Scale, Hoehn and Yahr scale, 8-item Parkinson's disease Questionnaire,
Mini-Mental State Examination. Data from 593 patients were analyzed, 325 (54.3%) 
were freezers of whom 200 (61.6%) experienced FOG only during off state
(off-freezers), 6 (1.8%) only during on state and 119 (36.6%) either in on and
off states or independently of dopaminergic response-related symptoms
(onoff-freezers). Overall, freezers vs non-freezers had longer disease duration, 
more advanced disease and greater disability. Moreover, freezers more frequently 
reported wearing-off and experienced worse quality of life. Onoff-freezers vs
off-freezers were older, more severely disabled, less likely to experience
wearing-off, treated with lower levodopa equivalent daily dose and with poorer
cognitive performance. Self-reported FOG is mainly recognizable in advanced PD
and is associated with more disability and worse quality of life. Onoff-FOG may
represent the result of under-treatment or rather interpretable as a distinct
clinical entity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25899545  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


107. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 31. pii: S1353-8020(15)00125-X. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.022. [Epub ahead of print]

Multi-dimensional balance training programme improves balance and gait
performance in people with Parkinson's disease: A pragmatic randomized controlled
trial with 12-month follow-up.

Wong-Yu IS(1), Mak MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
Hung Hom, Hong Kong, China. (2)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, The Hong
Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address:
Margaret.Mak@polyu.edu.hk.

INTRODUCTION: Previous studies have demonstrated that exercise interventions can 
improve balance and gait performance in people with Parkinson's disease (PD), but
most training did not target all balance domains and was conducted mainly
indoors.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the short- and long-term effects of a
multi-dimensional indoor and outdoor exercise programme on balance, balance
confidence and gait performance in people with PD.
METHODS: Eligible subjects with PD were randomly assigned to an eight-week indoor
and outdoor balance training (EXP, N = 41) group or upper limb exercise (CON,
N = 43) group. Outcome measures included BESTest total and subsection scores,
gait speed, dual-task timed-up-and-go (dual-task TUG) time and
Activities-specific Balance Confidence (ABC) score. All outcomes were assessed
before training (Pre), immediately after intervention (Post) and at six-month
(FU6m) and twelve-month (FU12m) follow-ups.
RESULTS: Immediately after training, EXP group showed more significant
improvements than CON group in BESTest total and subsection scores, gait speed
and dual-task TUG time (p < 0.05). At both FU6m and FU12m, EXP group showed
significantly greater gains than CON group in BESTest total and subsection scores
and dual-task TUG time (p < 0.05). EXP group also showed significantly greater
increase in the gait speed than CON group at FU6m (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The positive findings of this study provide evidence that this
multi-dimensional balance training programme can enhance balance and dual-task
gait performance up to 12-month follow-up in people with PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25899544  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


108. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 13. pii: S1353-8020(15)00130-3. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.027. [Epub ahead of print]

Botulinum Toxin-A for treatment of Pisa syndrome: A new target muscle.

Dupeyron A(1), Viollet E(2), Coroian F(3), Gagnard C(4), Renard D(5), Castelnovo 
G(5).

Author information: 
(1)M2H Laboratory, Euromov, Montpellier 1 University, Montpellier, France;
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Department, Caremeau Hospital, Montpellier 1
University, Nîmes, France. Electronic address: arnaud.dupeyron@univ-montp1.fr.
(2)Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Department, Caremeau Hospital, Montpellier 
1 University, Nîmes, France. (3)Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Department,
Lapeyronie Hospital, Montpellier 1 University, Montpellier, France. (4)Department
of Electrophysiology, Caremeau Hospital, Montpellier 1 University, Nîmes, France.
(5)Department of Neurology, Caremeau Hospital, Montpellier 1 University, Nîmes,
France.

PMID: 25899457  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


109. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 12. pii: S0022-510X(15)00199-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jns.2015.04.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of novel variants in LRRK2 gene in patients with Parkinson's
disease in Serbian population.

Janković MZ(1), Kresojević ND(1), Dobričić VS(1), Marković VV(1), Petrović IN(1),
Novaković IV(2), Kostić VS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Clinic, School of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Dr. Subotica 6, 
Belgrade, Serbia. (2)Institute for Human Genetics, School of Medicine, University
of Belgrade, Visegradska 26, Belgrade, Serbia. (3)Neurology Clinic, School of
Medicine, University of Belgrade, Dr. Subotica 6, Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic
address: vladimir.s.kostic@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Mutations in LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) are the most common
cause of autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). Large international studies
have revealed that pathogenic mutations are clustered in several exons coding for
functional domains of LRRK2 protein, but the mutation frequency differs among
populations. Systematic study of LRRK2 mutation prevalence and phenotype in
Serbian population has not been performed.
METHODS: Comprehensive mutation screening of selected exons of LRRK2 was
performed in 486 Serbian PD patients.
RESULTS: Previously reported mutations I1371V and G2019S were identified in a
single patient each, and c.4536+3A>G substitution in two patients. G2019S is the 
most common, pathogenic mutation, while pathogenic roles for recurrent variants
I1371V and c.4536+3A>G are not confirmed yet. Two novel variants S1508G and
I1991V were discovered in 2 unrelated patients. These variants are considered as 
disease causing according to several software predictions, but additional
segregation and functional analyses are required.
CONCLUSIONS: Mutation frequency in our study (1.23%) was similar to other
European populations, although the most common mutations were underestimated and 
novel variants were detected. In most cases, symptoms of LRRK2-PD are similar to 
sporadic PD, so estimation of frequency and penetrance of mutations in different 
populations is important for efficient genetic testing strategy and counseling.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25899316  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


110. Pract Neurol. 2015 Apr 21. pii: practneurol-2015-001083. doi:
10.1136/practneurol-2015-001083. [Epub ahead of print]

Bilateral Parkinsonism: when to image?

Levi V(1), Bertani GA(1), Carrabba G(1), Locatelli M(1), Cogiamanian F(2),
Rampini P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery Division of Neurosurgery, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy. (2)Department of Neuroscience
Division of Neurophysiopathology, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore
Policlinico, Milan, Italy.

PMID: 25898998  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


111. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Apr 18. pii: S0028-3908(15)00133-1. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.04.004. [Epub ahead of print]

In vivo characterization of a novel dopamine D3 receptor agonist to treat motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease.

Simms SL(1), Huettner DP(2), Kortagere S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Centers for Molecular Parasitology,
Virology and Translational Neuroscience, Institute for Molecular Medicine, Drexel
University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19129, USA. (2)Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, Centers for Molecular Parasitology, Virology and
Translational Neuroscience, Institute for Molecular Medicine, Drexel University
College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19129, USA. (3)Department of Microbiology
and Immunology, Centers for Molecular Parasitology, Virology and Translational
Neuroscience, Institute for Molecular Medicine, Drexel University College of
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19129, USA. Electronic address:
sandhya.kortagere@drexelmed.edu.

Synthetic dopaminergic agents have found utility in treating neurological and
neuropsychiatric disorders since the beginning of 19th century. The discovery of 
Levodopa (l-dopa) to effectively treat motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD)
revolutionized the therapy and remains a gold standard for treating PD. However, 
l-dopa therapy has been implicated in worsening of the non-motor symptoms
including cognition and long-term therapy leads to plasticity and development of 
abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) that are collectively called dyskinesias.
In response to these severe side effects, a range of dopaminergic agents from
partial agonists to antagonists have been tried either as l-dopa replacement
agents or as adjuvants with l-dopa therapy with limited success. Recent studies
in rodents, non-human primates and post mortem studies on PD patients have
implicated that dopamine D3 receptors may play a role in the etiology of both the
motor symptoms and l-dopa induced dyskinesias. We have recently developed SK609, 
a selective dopamine D3 receptor agonist with atypical signaling properties. In
this study, we further characterized this novel small molecule using the
unilateral lesioned rodent model of PD. In the forepaw stepping test paradigm,
SK609 significantly improved the performance of the impaired paw and also
normalized the bilateral asymmetry associated with the hemiparkinson rat. In
addition, a chronic treatment of SK609 did not induce any AIMs and when used
adjuvantly with l-dopa significantly reduced AIMs induced by l-dopa. Further, an 
optimal dose combination of SK609 with l-dopa was determined by dose dependent
titrations of both SK609 and l-dopa that produced minimal AIMs and maximized the 
effect on improving motor symptoms. Results from this study suggest that SK609 is
a novel dopaminergic agent that has the therapeutic potential to treat PD and
LID.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25896768  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


112. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Apr 20. pii: jnnp-2014-310049. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-310049. [Epub ahead of print]

Camptocormia in Parkinson's disease: definition, epidemiology, pathogenesis and
treatment modalities.

Srivanitchapoom P(1), Hallett M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Siriraj
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand Human Motor Control Section,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. (2)Human Motor Control Section, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Camptocormia is an axial postural deformity characterised by abnormal
thoracolumbar spinal flexion. The symptom usually presents while standing,
walking or exercising and is alleviated while sitting, lying in a recumbent
position, standing against a wall or using walking support. There is no consensus
on the degree of thoracolumbar flexion to define camptocormia. However, most
authors usually use an arbitrary number of at least 45° flexion of the
thoracolumbar spine when the individual is standing or walking. Aetiologies of
camptocormia are heterogeneous, and Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of its many
causes. The prevalence of camptocormia in PD ranges from 3% to 18%. Central and
peripheral mechanisms might both contribute to its pathogenesis. Although there
is no established consensus for treatment of camptocormia in PD, there are
non-pharmacological, pharmacological and surgical approaches that can be used.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25896683  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


113. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015 Apr 20:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Factors associated with higher healthcare costs in individuals living with
arthritis: evidence from the quantile regression approach.

Lo T(1), Parkinson L, Cunich M, Byles J.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Gender, Health & Ageing, The University of Newcastle, HMRI
Building, C/- University Drive, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the factors associated with higher healthcare cost in women
with arthritis, using generalized linear models (GLMs) and quantile regression
(QR).
METHODS: This is a cross-sectional healthcare cost study of individuals with
arthritis that focused on older Australian women. Cost data were drawn from the
Medicare Australia datasets.
RESULTS: GLM results show that healthcare cost was significantly associated with 
various socio-demographic and health factors. Although QR analysis results show
the same direction of association between these factors and healthcare cost as in
the GLMs, they indicate progressively increased effect sizes at the 50th, 75th,
90th and 95th percentiles.
CONCLUSION: Findings suggest traditional regression models such as GLMs that
assume a single rate of change to accurately describe the relationships between
explanatory variables and healthcare costs across the entire distribution of cost
can produce biased results. QR should be considered in future healthcare cost
research.

PMID: 25896664  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


114. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 12. pii: S0022-510X(15)00204-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jns.2015.04.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Diurnal drooling in Chinese patients with Parkinson's disease.

Ou R(1), Guo X(1), Wei Q(1), Cao B(1), Yang J(1), Song W(1), Chen K(1), Zhao
B(1), Chen X(1), Shang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu,
Sichuan, China. (2)Department of Neurology, West China Hospital, Sichuan
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China. Electronic address: hfshang2002@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to explore the prevalence and clinical
correlates of diurnal drooling in Chinese patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis of 518 Chinese patients with PD was
conducted. Each subject was categorized as a diurnal "drooler" or a "non-drooler"
using the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS).
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-one (23.4%) patients exhibited diurnal drooling. 
Diurnal drooling was reported more frequently in male and late-onset PD patients 
(p<0.05). The levodopa equivalent daily doses, mean age and disease duration, the
percentages of PD family history and levodopa or entacapone use, the incidences
of dysarthria, dysphagia and fluctuation, and the Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS)
part III, NMSS, Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA)
and PD Questionnaire 39 (PDQ-39) scores in droolers were significantly greater
than in non-droolers (p<0.05). The percentage of benzhexol use in non-droolers
was significantly higher than in droolers (p<0.05). The Frontal assessment
battery (FAB) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) scores were not different 
between the droolers and non-droolers. The forward binary logistic regression
model indicated that dysarthria, male sex, age, UPDRS part III, sexual
dysfunction and a family history of PD were associated with diurnal drooling.
CONCLUSIONS: Diurnal drooling is a relatively common debilitating symptom in
Chinese PD patients. It is not only related to male sex, age, dysarthria and PD
family history, but also correlates with motor and non-motor severity especially 
sexual dysfunction of PD. However, it is not related to cognition.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25896289  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


115. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 May;11(5):246. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2015.62. Epub 2015 Apr 
21.

Parkinson disease: Deep brain stimulation might alleviate parkinsonism by
reducing excessive synchronization in primary motor cortex.

Malkki H.

PMID: 25896086  [PubMed - in process]


116. Lancet Neurol. 2015 May;14(5):518-531. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(15)00019-8. Epub
2015 Apr 12.

Apathy in Parkinson's disease: clinical features, neural substrates, diagnosis,
and treatment.

Pagonabarraga J(1), Kulisevsky J(2), Strafella AP(3), Krack P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology Department, Sant Pau Hospital and
Biomedical Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain; Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación en Red-Enfermedades
Neurodegenerativas, Madrid, Spain. (2)Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology
Department, Sant Pau Hospital and Biomedical Research Institute, Barcelona,
Spain; Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de
Investigación en Red-Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, Madrid, Spain; Universitat 
Oberta de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain. (3)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement
Disorder Unit, E.J. Safra Parkinson Disease Program, Toronto Western Hospital and
Research Institute, UHN, ON, Canada; Research Imaging Centre, Campbell Family
Mental Health Research Institute, CAMH, University of Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Movement Disorder Unit, Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, CHU de
Grenoble, Joseph Fourier University, Grenoble, France; INSERM, Unit 836, Grenoble
Institut des Neurosciences, Grenoble, France. Electronic address:
Paul.Krack@ujf-grenoble.fr.

Normal maintenance of human motivation depends on the integrity of subcortical
structures that link the prefrontal cortex with the limbic system. Structural and
functional disruption of different networks within these circuits alters the
maintenance of spontaneous mental activity and the capacity of affected
individuals to associate emotions with complex stimuli. The clinical
manifestations of these changes include a continuum of abnormalities in
goal-oriented behaviours known as apathy. Apathy is highly prevalent in
Parkinson's disease (and across many neurodegenerative disorders) and can
severely affect the quality of life of both patients and caregivers.
Differentiation of apathy from depression, and discrimination of its cognitive,
emotional, and auto-activation components could guide an individualised approach 
to the treatment of symptoms. The opportunity to manipulate dopaminergic
treatment in Parkinson's disease allows researchers to study a continuous range
of motivational states, from apathy to impulse control disorders. Parkinson's
disease can thus be viewed as a model that provides insight into the neural
substrates of apathy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25895932  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


117. Exp Neurol. 2015 Apr 18;269:133-141. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.04.007. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Differential upregulation of the cannabinoid CB2 receptor in neurotoxic and
inflammation-driven rat models of Parkinson's disease.

Concannon RM(1), Okine BN(1), Finn DP(1), Dowd E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology & Therapeutics, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland; 
NCBES Galway Neuroscience Centre, National University of Ireland, Galway,
Ireland. (2)Pharmacology & Therapeutics, National University of Ireland, Galway, 
Ireland; NCBES Galway Neuroscience Centre, National University of Ireland,
Galway, Ireland. Electronic address: eilis.dowd@nuigalway.ie.

The cannabinoid CB2 receptor has recently emerged as a potential
anti-inflammatory target to break the self-sustaining cycle of neuroinflammation 
and neurodegeneration that is associated with neurodegenerative diseases.
However, in order to facilitate the development of cannabinoid drugs for
neurodegenerative disease, the changes that occur in the endocannabinoid system
in response to different neurodegenerative triggers needs to be elucidated.
Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate and compare the changes that 
occur in the endocannabinoid system in neurotoxic and inflammation-driven models 
of Parkinson's disease. To do so, male Sprague Dawley rats were given unilateral,
intra-striatal injections of the dopaminergic neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine, or
the bacterial inflammagen, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Animals underwent
behavioural testing for motor dysfunction on Days 7, 14 and 28 post-surgery, and 
were sacrificed on Days 1, 4, 14 and 28. Changes in the endocannabinoid system
were investigated by qRT-PCR, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and
immunohistochemistry. After injection of 6-hydroxydopamine or LPS into the rat
striatum, we found that expression of the CB2 receptor was significantly elevated
in both models, and that this increase correlated significantly with an increase 
in microglial activation. Interestingly, the increase in CB2 receptor expression 
in the inflammation-driven model was significantly more pronounced than that in
the neurotoxic model. Moreover, endocannabinoid levels were also elevated in the 
LPS model but not the 6-hydroxydopamine model. Thus, this study has shown that
the endocannabinoid system is dysregulated in animal models of Parkinson's
disease, and has also revealed significant differences in the level of
dysregulation between the models themselves. This study indicates that targeting 
the CB2 receptor may represent a viable target for anti-inflammatory disease
modification in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25895887  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


118. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2015 Apr 18;133:155-163. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2015.04.004.
[Epub ahead of print]

Ameliorative effects of baicalein in MPTP-induced mouse model of Parkinson's
disease: A microarray study.

Gao L(1), Li C(2), Yang RY(2), Lian WW(2), Fang JS(2), Pang XC(2), Qin XM(3), Liu
AL(4), Du GH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking
Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, PR China; Modern Research Center for
Traditional Chinese Medicine of Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, PR China.
(2)Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking
Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, PR China. (3)Modern Research Center for
Traditional Chinese Medicine of Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, PR China.
(4)Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking
Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, PR China; Beijing Key Laboratory of Drug
Target Research and Drug Screening, Beijing 100050, PR China. Electronic address:
liuailin@imm.ac.cn. (5)Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, PR China; State Key
Laboratory of Bioactive Substance and Function of Natural Medicines, Beijing
100050, PR China. Electronic address: dugh@imm.ac.cn.

Baicalein, a flavonoid from Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, has been shown to
possess neuroprotective properties. The purpose of this study was to explore the 
effects of baicalein on motor behavioral deficits and gene expression in
N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mice model of
Parkinson's disease (PD). The behavioral results showed that baicalein
significantly improves the abnormal behaviors in MPTP-induced mice model of PD,
as manifested by shortening the total time for climbing down the pole, prolonging
the latent periods of rotarod, and increasing the vertical movements. Using cDNA 
microarray and subsequent bioinformatic analyses, it was found that baicalein
significantly promotes the biological processes including neurogenesis,
neuroblast proliferation, neurotrophin signaling pathway, walking and locomotor
behaviors, and inhibits dopamine metabolic process through regulation of gene
expressions. Based on analysis of gene co-expression networks, the results
indicated that the regulation of genes such as LIMK1, SNCA and GLRA1 by baicalein
might play central roles in the network. Our results provide experimental
evidence for the potential use of baicalein in the treatment of PD, and revealed 
gene expression profiles, biological processes and pathways influenced by
baicalein in MPTP-treated mice.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25895692  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


119. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2015 Apr;5(2):147-53. doi: 10.2217/nmt.14.57.

Nonmotor symptoms in sporadic versus familial forms of Parkinson's disease.

Chao YX(1), Chew LM, Deng X, Tan EK.

Author information: 
(1)National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore 308433, Singapore.

SUMMARY  Besides the classical motor symptoms, Parkinson's disease (PD) patients 
experience a wide range of nonmotor symptoms (NMS) throughout the disease course.
However, due to the lack of recognition and understanding of the pathogenesis,
NMS symptoms may be overlooked. Familial PD is a well-defined group that can
provide a good model to investigate the mechanisms for both motor and NMS in PD. 
Some studies suggest that the frequency of NMS is not different between genetic
and sporadic form of PD while others suggest that specific domains (such as
neuropsychiatric symptoms) are more common in the genetic form. Early recognition
of NMS may facilitate early diagnosis and monitoring of both sporadic and genetic
PD.

PMID: 25894878  [PubMed - in process]


120. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2015 Apr;5(2):105-8. doi: 10.2217/nmt.14.56.

Neuroimaging in Parkinson's disease: a future perspective.

Brooks DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Aarhus University, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

PMID: 25894874  [PubMed - in process]


121. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Apr 20. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2015.51. [Epub ahead of print]

Brain Stimulation for Torsion Dystonia.

Fox MD(1), Alterman RL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation, Department of
Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts2Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston. (2)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Importance: Dystonia is a heterogeneous neurologic disorder characterized by
abnormal muscle contractions for which standard medical therapy is often
inadequate. For such patients, therapeutic brain stimulation is becoming
increasingly used.
Objectives: To review the evidence and effect sizes for treating different types 
of dystonia with different types of brain stimulation and to discuss recent
advances relevant to patient selection, surgical approach, programming, and
mechanism of action.
Evidence Review: PubMed was searched for publications on the clinical effect of
brain stimulation in dystonia up through December 31, 2014. Recent meta-analyses,
consensus statements, and evidence-based guidelines were incorporated. Emphasis
was placed on deep brain stimulation (DBS) and randomized clinical trials;
however, other stimulation modalities and trial designs were included. For each
intervention the mean change in dystonia severity, number of patients studied,
and evidence of efficacy based on American Academy of Neurology criteria were
determined.
Findings: Strong (level B) evidence supports the use of DBS for the treatment of 
primary generalized or segmental dystonia, especially when due to mutation in the
DYT1 gene, as well as for patients with cervical dystonia. Large effect sizes
have also been reported for DBS treatment of tardive dystonia, writer's cramp,
cranial dystonia, myoclonus dystonia, and off-state dystonia associated with
Parkinson disease. Lesser benefit is generally seen in dystonia secondary to
structural brain damage. Other brain stimulation techniques, including epidural
cortical stimulation and noninvasive brain stimulation, have been investigated,
but generally report smaller effect sizes in fewer patients.
Conclusions and Relevance: Patients with dystonia that is not adequately
controlled with standard medical therapy should be referred for consideration of 
DBS, especially patients with generalized, segmental, or cervical dystonia. Other
less-invasive stimulation modalities require further research before being
considered a therapeutic alternative.

PMID: 25894231  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


122. Stem Cell Rev. 2015 Apr 17. [Epub ahead of print]

Fueling Hope: Stem Cells in Social Media.

Robillard JM(1), Cabral E, Hennessey C, Kwon BK, Illes J.

Author information: 
(1)National Core for Neuroethics, Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health,
Department of Medicine, Division of Neurology, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, V6T 2B5, Canada, jrobilla@mail.ubc.ca.

Social media is broadening opportunities to engage in discussions about
biomedical advances such as stem cell research. However, little is known about
how information pertaining to stem cells is disseminated on platforms such as
Twitter. To fill this gap, we conducted a content analysis of tweets containing
(i) a stem cell keyword, and (ii) a keyword related to either spinal cord injury 
(SCI) or Parkinson disease (PD). We found that the discussion about stem cells
and SCI or PD revolves around different aspects of the research process. We also 
found that the tone of most tweets about stem cells is either positive or
neutral. The findings contribute new knowledge about Twitter as a connecting
platform for many voices and as a key tool for the dissemination of information
about stem cells and disorders of the central nervous system.

PMID: 25893594  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


123. Toxicol Res (Camb). 2015 Mar 1;4(2):191-202.

Manganese-induced Neurotoxicity: From C. elegans to Humans.

Chen P(1), Chakraborty S(1), Peres TV(2), Bowman AB(3), Aschner M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Bronx, NY, USA. (2)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA ; Departamento de Bioquímica, Centro de Ciências
Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(3)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville TN,
USA.

Manganese (Mn) is one of the most abundant metals on the earth. It is required
for normal cellular activities, but overexposure leads to toxicity. Neurons are
more susceptible to Mn-induced toxicity than other cells, and accumulation of Mn 
in the brain results in Manganism that presents with Parkinson's disease
(PD)-like symptoms. In the last decade, a number of Mn transporters have been
identified, which improves our understanding of Mn transport in and out of cells.
However, the mechanism of Mn-induced neurotoxicity is only partially uncovered,
with further research needed to explore the whole picture of Mn-induced toxicity.
In this review, we will address recent progress in Mn-induced neurotoxicity from 
C. elegans to humans, and explore future directions that will help understand the
mechanisms of its neurotoxicity.

PMCID: PMC4399965 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25893090  [PubMed]


124. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr 9. pii: S1353-8020(15)00127-3. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.024. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuropsychiatric symptoms and caregiver's burden in Parkinson's disease.

Martinez-Martin P(1), Rodriguez-Blazquez C(2), Forjaz MJ(3), Frades-Payo B(4),
Agüera-Ortiz L(5), Weintraub D(6), Riesco A(4), Kurtis MM(7), Chaudhuri KR(8).

Author information: 
(1)National Center of Epidemiology and CIBERNED, Carlos III Institute of Health, 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: pmartinez@isciii.es. (2)National Center of
Epidemiology and CIBERNED, Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain.
(3)National School of Public Health and REDISSEC, Carlos III Institute of Health,
Madrid, Spain. (4)Research Unit, Alzheimer Center Reina Sofia Foundation, Carlos 
III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain. (5)Research Unit, Alzheimer Center Reina 
Sofia Foundation, Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain; CIBERSAM, Carlos
III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain. (6)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman
School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA;
Departments of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA; Philadelphia Veterans Affairs Medical Center,
Philadelphia, USA. (7)Department of Neurology, Hospital Ruber Internacional,
Madrid, Spain. (8)National Parkinson Foundation Centre of Excellence, Department 
of Neurology, King's College Hospital, and Kings Health Partners, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: In Parkinson's disease (PD), neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) can be
particularly burdensome for caregivers. The main goal of this study was to assess
the impact of NPS, assessed by means of a new specific scale, on caregiver
burden.
METHODS: A sample of 584 pairs of PD patients and their primary caregivers was
studied. Patients' NPS were measured with the Scale for Evaluation of
Neuropsychiatric Disorders in PD (SEND-PD), and the Zarit Caregiver Burden
Inventory was used to quantify caregiver burden. Three linear regression models
were built to check factors associated with caregiver burden, one for the total
sample and two for subgroups stratified by the presence of dementia.
RESULTS: The most frequent NPS were depression (in 66% of the sample), anxiety
(65%) and mental fatigue (57%). Patients with dementia (n = 94; 16% of sample)
consistently presented more NPS than patients without dementia (p < 0.001). On
linear regression models, the main determinants of caregiver burden (for the
total sample and the sample of patients without dementia) were SEND-PD dimensions
mood/apathy and psychosis, PD-related disability and disease duration. For
patients with dementia, the only significant caregiver burden determinants were
SEND-PD psychosis and mood/apathy subscale scores.
CONCLUSIONS: NPS in PD are highly associated with and are determinants of
caregiver burden, and are more prevalent and burdensome in patients with
dementia. Detailed assessment and specific interventions aimed at NPS could
alleviate caregiver burden.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25892660  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


125. Neurophysiol Clin. 2015 Apr 16. pii: S0987-7053(15)00020-9. doi:
10.1016/j.neucli.2015.01.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Specific brainstem and cortico-spinal reflex abnormalities in coexisting
essential tremor and Parkinson's disease (ET-PD).

Yavuz D(1), Gündüz A(2), Ertan S(1), Apaydın H(1), Şifoğlu A(1), Kiziltan G(1),
Kiziltan ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Istanbul University, Cerrahpasa School of Medicine, Department of Neurology,
34098 K.M.Pasa, Istanbul, Turkey. (2)Istanbul University, Cerrahpasa School of
Medicine, Department of Neurology, 34098 K.M.Pasa, Istanbul, Turkey. Electronic
address: draysegulgunduz@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to analyze functional changes at brainstem and spinal levels 
in essential tremor (ET), Parkinson's disease (PD) and coexisting essential
tremor and Parkinson's disease (ET-PD).
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Age- and gender-matched patients with tremor (15 ET, 7 ET
with resting tremor, 25 ET-PD and 10 PD) and 12 healthy subjects were enrolled in
the study. Diagnosis was established according to standardized clinical criteria.
Electrophysiological studies included blink reflex (BR), auditory startle
reaction (ASR) and long latency reflex (LLR).
RESULTS: Blink reflex was normal and similar in all groups. Probability of ASR
was significantly lower in ET-PD group whereas it was similar to healthy subjects
in ET and PD (P<0.001). LLR was recorded during voluntary activity in all three
groups. LLR II was more common in ET, PD and ET-PD groups. LLR III was far more
common in the PD group (n=3, 13.6% in ET; n=4, 16.0% in ET-PD and n=7, 46.7% in
PD; p=0.037).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the integrity of BR pathways, ASR and LLR show distinctive
abnormalities in ET-PD. In our opinion, our electrophysiological findings support
the hypothesis that ET-PD is a distinct entity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25892331  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


126. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 9. pii: S0022-510X(15)00193-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jns.2015.03.046. [Epub ahead of print]

Subcortical whiter matter hyperintensities within the cholinergic pathways of
patients with dementia and parkinsonism.

Park HE(1), Park IS(1), Oh YS(1), Yang DW(1), Lee KS(1), Choi HS(2), Ahn KJ(2),
Kim JS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul, South Korea. (2)Department of Radiology, College of Medicine, The
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea. (3)Department of Neurology,
College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.
Electronic address: neuronet@catholic.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) in the cholinergic
pathways are associated with cognitive performance in Alzheimer's disease (AD)
and Parkinson disease dementia (PDD). This study aimed to evaluate the
relationship between loss of white matter cholinergic pathways and cognitive
function in patients with AD, diffuse Lewy body disease (DLB), and PDD.
METHODS: The subjects included 20 patients with AD, 17 with DLB, 21 with PDD, and
20 healthy controls. The extent of WMHs within cholinergic pathways was assessed 
using the Cholinergic Pathways Hyperintensities Scale (CHIPS) and was compared
among the different diseases.
RESULTS: The mean CHIPS scores were similar among the three dementia groups (AD
vs. DLB vs. PDD=34.6±17.9 vs. 32.4±14.1 vs. 31.8±14.5, p=0.781 by ANCOVA) and
higher than those of controls (11.5±7.6, p=0.001 by ANCOVA).
CONCLUSIONS: Losses of cholinergic pathways were similar among AD, DLB, and PDD
groups, and more severe cognitive dysfunction was associated with elevated WMHs. 
These findings suggest that interruption of acetylcholine pathways may be related
to cognitive dysfunction in these three diseases, even though they have different
pathological mechanisms.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25891829  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


127. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Mar 28. pii: S0022-510X(15)00156-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jns.2015.03.025. [Epub ahead of print]

Magnetization transfer MRI in dementia disorders, Huntington's disease and
parkinsonism.

Tambasco N(1), Nigro P(2), Romoli M(2), Simoni S(2), Parnetti L(2), Calabresi
P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Neurologica, Azienda Ospedaliera-Università di Perugia, Perugia,
Italy. Electronic address: n.tambasco@libero.it. (2)Clinica Neurologica, Azienda 
Ospedaliera-Università di Perugia, Perugia, Italy. (3)Clinica Neurologica,
Azienda Ospedaliera-Università di Perugia, Perugia, Italy; IRCCS Fondazione Santa
Lucia, Roma, Italy.

Magnetic resonance imaging is the most used technique of neuroimaging. Using
recent advances in magnetic resonance application it is possible to investigate
several changes in neurodegenerative disease. Among different techniques,
magnetization-transfer imaging (MTI), a magnetic resonance acquisition protocol
assessing the magnetization exchange between protons bound to water and those
bound to macromolecules, is able to identify microstructural brain tissue changes
peculiar of neurodegenerative diseases. This review provides a report on the MTI 
technique and its use in the dementia disorders, Huntington's disease and
parkinsonisms, comprehensive of the predictive values of MTI in the
identification of early-phase disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25891828  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


128. J Neurol Sci. 2015 May 15;352(1-2):88-93. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.03.043. Epub
2015 Apr 7.

Vitamin D receptor gene polymorphisms and Parkinson's disease in a population
with high ultraviolet radiation exposure.

Gatto NM(1), Sinsheimer JS(2), Cockburn M(3), Escobedo LA(3), Bordelon Y(4), Ritz
B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nutrition, Healthy Lifestyles & Disease Prevention, School of
Public Health, Loma Linda University, United States. Electronic address:
ngatto@llu.edu. (2)Department of Human Genetics, UCLA, United States; Department 
of Biomathematics, UCLA, United States; Department of Biostatistics, UCLA, United
States. (3)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California, 
United States. (4)Department of Neurology, UCLA, United States. (5)Department of 
Epidemiology, UCLA, United States; Department of Environmental Health Sciences,
UCLA, United States; Department of Neurology, UCLA, United States.

INTRODUCTION: A high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency has been reported in
Parkinson's disease (PD). Epidemiologic studies examining variability in genes
involved in vitamin D metabolism have not taken into account level of exposure to
ultraviolet radiation (UVR). We examined whether exposure to UVR (as a surrogate 
for vitamin D levels) and variations in the vitamin D receptor gene (VDR) are
associated with PD.
METHODS: Within a geographical information system (GIS) we linked participants'
geocoded residential address data to ground level UV data to estimate historical 
exposure to UVR. Six SNPs in VDR were genotyped in non-Hispanic Caucasian
subjects.
RESULTS: Average lifetime UVR exposure levels were >5000Wh/m(2), which was higher
than levels for populations in previous studies, and UVR exposure did not differ 
between cases and controls. Homozygotes for the rs731236 TT (major allele)
genotype had a 31% lower risk of PD risk (OR=0.69; 95% CI=0.49, 0.98; p=0.04 for 
TT vs. TC+CC). The rs7975232 GG (minor allele) genotype was also associated with 
decreased risk of PD (OR=0.63; 95% CI=0.42, 0.93; p=0.02 for GG vs. TG+TT). The
association between PD risk and a third locus, rs1544410 (BsmI), was not
statistically significant after adjustment for covariates, although there was a
trend for lower risk with the GG genotype.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides initial evidence that VDR polymorphisms may
modulate risk of PD in a population highly exposed to UVR throughout lifetime.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25890641  [PubMed - in process]


129. Brain. 2015 Apr 16. pii: awv093. [Epub ahead of print]

The relative phases of basal ganglia activities dynamically shape effective
connectivity in Parkinson's disease.

Cagnan H(1), Duff EP(2), Brown P(3).

Author information: 
(1)1 Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit at the University of
Oxford, Mansfield Road, OX1 3TH, UK 2 Nuffield Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital, OX3 9DU, UK 3 The
Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, Queen Square, 
London WC1N 3BG, UK. (2)4 FMRIB Centre, Nuffield Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, University of Oxford, OX3 9DU, UK. (3)1 Medical Research Council
Brain Network Dynamics Unit at the University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, OX1 3TH,
UK 2 Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, John
Radcliffe Hospital, OX3 9DU, UK peter.brown@ndcn.ox.ac.uk.

Optimal phase alignment between oscillatory neural circuits is hypothesized to
optimize information flow and enhance system performance. This theory is known as
communication-through-coherence. The basal ganglia motor circuit exhibits
exaggerated oscillatory and coherent activity patterns in Parkinson's disease.
Such activity patterns are linked to compromised motor system performance as
evinced by bradykinesia, rigidity and tremor, suggesting that network function
might actually deteriorate once a certain level of net synchrony is exceeded in
the motor circuit. Here, we characterize the processes underscoring excessive
synchronization and its termination. To this end, we analysed local field
potential recordings from the subthalamic nucleus and globus pallidus of five
patients with Parkinson's disease (four male and one female, aged 37-64 years).
We observed that certain phase alignments between subthalamic nucleus and globus 
pallidus amplified local neural synchrony in the beta frequency band while others
either suppressed it or did not induce any significant change with respect to
surrogates. The increase in local beta synchrony directly correlated with how
long the two nuclei locked to beta-amplifying phase alignments. Crucially,
administration of the dopamine prodrug, levodopa, reduced the frequency and
duration of periods during which subthalamic and pallidal populations were
phase-locked to beta-amplifying alignments. Conversely ON dopamine, the total
duration over which subthalamic and pallidal populations were aligned to phases
that left beta-amplitude unchanged with respect to surrogates increased. Thus
dopaminergic input shifted circuit dynamics from persistent periods of locking to
amplifying phase alignments, associated with compromised motoric function, to
more dynamic phase alignment and improved motoric function. This effect of
dopamine on local circuit resonance suggests means by which novel electrical
interventions might prevent resonance-related pathological circuit interactions.

© The Author (2015). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Guarantors of Brain.

PMID: 25888552  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


130. Implement Sci. 2015 Feb 26;10(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s13012-014-0148-2.

Resource use, costs and quality of end-of-life care: observations in a cohort of 
elderly Australian cancer decedents.

Langton JM(1), Srasuebkul P(2), Reeve R(3), Parkinson B(4), Gu Y(5), Buckley
NA(6), Haas M(7), Viney R(8), Pearson SA(9,)(10); End-of-Life in Cancer Care
(EoL-CC) Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
julia.langton@sydney.edu.au. (2)Faculty of Pharmacy, The University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. preeyaporn.srasuebkul@sydney.edu.au. (3)Centre for Health
Economics Research & Evaluation, The University of Technology Sydney, Sydney,
NSW, Australia. rebecca.reeve@chere.uts.edu.au. (4)Centre for Health Economics
Research & Evaluation, The University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. bonny.parkinson@chere.uts.edu.au. (5)Centre for Health Economics
Research & Evaluation, The University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. yuanyuan.gu@chere.uts.edu.au. (6)Sydney Medical School, The University
of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. nicholas.buckley@sydney.edu.au. (7)Centre for 
Health Economics Research & Evaluation, The University of Technology Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. marion.haas@chere.uts.edu.au. (8)Centre for Health
Economics Research & Evaluation, The University of Technology Sydney, Sydney,
NSW, Australia. rosalie.viney@chere.uts.edu.au. (9)Faculty of Pharmacy, The
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. sallie.pearson@sydney.edu.au.
(10)Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
sallie.pearson@sydney.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The last year of life is one of the most resource-intensive periods
for people with cancer. Very little population-based research has been conducted 
on end-of-life cancer care in the Australian health care setting. The objective
of this program is to undertake a series of observational studies examining
resource use, costs and quality of end-of-life care in a cohort of elderly cancer
decedents using linked, routinely collected data.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study forms part of an ongoing cancer health services
research program. The cohorts for the end-of-life research program comprise
Australian Government Department of Veterans' Affairs decedents with full health 
care entitlements, residing in NSW for the last 18 months of life and dying
between 2005 and 2009. We used cancer and death registry data to identify our
decedent cohorts and their causes of death. The study population includes 9,862
decedents with a cancer history and 15,483 decedents without a cancer history.
The median age at death is 86 and 87 years in the cancer and non-cancer cohorts, 
respectively. We will examine resource use and associated costs in the last 6
months of life using linked claims data to report on health service use,
hospitalizations, emergency department visits and medicines use. We will use best
practice methods to examine the nature and extent of resource use, costs and
quality of care based on previously published indicators. We will also examine
factors associated with these outcomes.
DISCUSSION: This will be the first Australian research program and among the
first internationally to combine routinely collected data from primary care and
hospital-based care to examine comprehensively end-of-life care in the elderly.
The research program has high translational value, as there is limited evidence
about the nature and quality of care in the Australian end-of-life setting.

PMCID: PMC4350285
PMID: 25884470  [PubMed - in process]


131. Phys Rev Lett. 2015 Apr 3;114(13):132001. Epub 2015 Apr 2.

Measurement of B_{c}^{+} Production in Proton-Proton Collisions at
sqrt[s]=8  TeV.

Aaij R, Adeva B, Adinolfi M, Affolder A, Ajaltouni Z, Akar S, Albrecht J, Alessio
F, Alexander M, Ali S, Alkhazov G, Alvarez Cartelle P, Alves AA, Amato S, Amerio 
S, Amhis Y, An L, Anderlini L, Anderson J, Andreassen R, Andreotti M, Andrews JE,
Appleby RB, Aquines Gutierrez O, Archilli F, Artamonov A, Artuso M, Aslanides E, 
Auriemma G, Baalouch M, Bachmann S, Back JJ, Badalov A, Baesso C, Baldini W,
Barlow RJ, Barschel C, Barsuk S, Barter W, Batozskaya V, Battista V, Bay A,
Beaucourt L, Beddow J, Bedeschi F, Bediaga I, Belogurov S, Belous K, Belyaev I,
Ben-Haim E, Bencivenni G, Benson S, Benton J, Berezhnoy A, Bernet R, Bettler MO, 
van Beuzekom M, Bien A, Bifani S, Bird T, Bizzeti A, Bjørnstad PM, Blake T, Blanc
F, Blouw J, Blusk S, Bocci V, Bondar A, Bondar N, Bonivento W, Borghi S, Borgia
A, Borsato M, Bowcock TJ, Bowen E, Bozzi C, Brambach T, Brett D, Britsch M,
Britton T, Brodzicka J, Brook NH, Brown H, Bursche A, Buytaert J, Cadeddu S,
Calabrese R, Calvi M, Calvo Gomez M, Campana P, Campora Perez D, Capriotti L,
Carbone A, Carboni G, Cardinale R, Cardini A, Carson L, Carvalho Akiba K, Casse
G, Cassina L, Castillo Garcia L, Cattaneo M, Cauet Ch, Cenci R, Charles M,
Charpentier P, Chefdeville M, Chen S, Cheung SF, Chiapolini N, Chrzaszcz M, Cid
Vidal X, Ciezarek G, Clarke PE, Clemencic M, Cliff HV, Closier J, Coco V, Cogan
J, Cogneras E, Cogoni V, Cojocariu L, Collazuol G, Collins P, Comerma-Montells A,
Contu A, Cook A, Coombes M, Coquereau S, Corti G, Corvo M, Counts I, Couturier B,
Cowan GA, Craik DC, Crocombe AC, Cruz Torres M, Cunliffe S, Currie R, D'Ambrosio 
C, Dalseno J, David P, David PN, Davis A, De Bruyn K, De Capua S, De Cian M, De
Miranda JM, De Paula L, De Silva W, De Simone P, Dean CT, Decamp D, Deckenhoff M,
Del Buono L, Déléage N, Derkach D, Deschamps O, Dettori F, Di Canto A, Dijkstra
H, Donleavy S, Dordei F, Dorigo M, Dosil Suárez A, Dossett D, Dovbnya A,
Dreimanis K, Dujany G, Dupertuis F, Durante P, Dzhelyadin R, Dziurda A, Dzyuba A,
Easo S, Egede U, Egorychev V, Eidelman S, Eisenhardt S, Eitschberger U, Ekelhof
R, Eklund L, El Rifai I, Elsasser Ch, Ely S, Esen S, Evans HM, Evans T, Falabella
A, Färber C, Farinelli C, Farley N, Farry S, Fay R, Ferguson D, Fernandez Albor
V, Ferreira Rodrigues F, Ferro-Luzzi M, Filippov S, Fiore M, Fiorini M, Firlej M,
Fitzpatrick C, Fiutowski T, Fol P, Fontana M, Fontanelli F, Forty R, Francisco O,
Frank M, Frei C, Frosini M, Fu J, Furfaro E, Gallas Torreira A, Galli D,
Gallorini S, Gambetta S, Gandelman M, Gandini P, Gao Y, García Pardiñas J,
Garofoli J, Garra Tico J, Garrido L, Gascon D, Gaspar C, Gauld R, Gavardi L,
Gazzoni G, Geraci A, Gersabeck E, Gersabeck M, Gershon T, Ghez P, Gianelle A,
Gianì S, Gibson V, Giubega L, Gligorov VV, Göbel C, Golubkov D, Golutvin A, Gomes
A, Gotti C, Grabalosa Gándara M, Graciani Diaz R, Granado Cardoso LA, Graugés E, 
Graverini E, Graziani G, Grecu A, Greening E, Gregson S, Griffith P, Grillo L,
Grünberg O, Gui B, Gushchin E, Guz Y, Gys T, Hadjivasiliou C, Haefeli G, Haen C, 
Haines SC, Hall S, Hamilton B, Hampson T, Han X, Hansmann-Menzemer S, Harnew N,
Harnew ST, Harrison J, He J, Head T, Heijne V, Hennessy K, Henrard P, Henry L,
Hernando Morata JA, van Herwijnen E, Heß M, Hicheur A, Hill D, Hoballah M,
Hombach C, Hulsbergen W, Hunt P, Hussain N, Hutchcroft D, Hynds D, Idzik M, Ilten
P, Jacobsson R, Jaeger A, Jalocha J, Jans E, Jaton P, Jawahery A, Jing F, John M,
Johnson D, Jones CR, Joram C, Jost B, Jurik N, Kandybei S, Kanso W, Karacson M,
Karbach TM, Karodia S, Kelsey M, Kenyon IR, Ketel T, Khanji B, Khurewathanakul C,
Klaver S, Klimaszewski K, Kochebina O, Kolpin M, Komarov I, Koopman RF,
Koppenburg P, Korolev M, Kozlinskiy A, Kravchuk L, Kreplin K, Kreps M, Krocker G,
Krokovny P, Kruse F, Kucewicz W, Kucharczyk M, Kudryavtsev V, Kurek K,
Kvaratskheliya T, La Thi VN, Lacarrere D, Lafferty G, Lai A, Lambert D, Lambert
RW, Lanfranchi G, Langenbruch C, Langhans B, Latham T, Lazzeroni C, Le Gac R, van
Leerdam J, Lees JP, Lefèvre R, Leflat A, Lefrançois J, Leo S, Leroy O, Lesiak T, 
Leverington B, Li Y, Likhomanenko T, Liles M, Lindner R, Linn C, Lionetto F, Liu 
B, Lohn S, Longstaff I, Lopes JH, Lopez-March N, Lowdon P, Lucchesi D, Luo H,
Lupato A, Luppi E, Lupton O, Machefert F, Machikhiliyan IV, Maciuc F, Maev O,
Malde S, Malinin A, Manca G, Mancinelli G, Mapelli A, Maratas J, Marchand JF,
Marconi U, Marin Benito C, Marino P, Märki R, Marks J, Martellotti G, Martín
Sánchez A, Martinelli M, Martinez Santos D, Martinez Vidal F, Martins Tostes D,
Massafferri A, Matev R, Mathe Z, Matteuzzi C, Mazurov A, McCann M, McCarthy J,
McNab A, McNulty R, McSkelly B, Meadows B, Meier F, Meissner M, Merk M, Milanes
DA, Minard MN, Moggi N, Molina Rodriguez J, Monteil S, Morandin M, Morawski P,
Mordà A, Morello MJ, Moron J, Morris AB, Mountain R, Muheim F, Müller K, Mussini 
M, Muster B, Naik P, Nakada T, Nandakumar R, Nasteva I, Needham M, Neri N,
Neubert S, Neufeld N, Neuner M, Nguyen AD, Nguyen TD, Nguyen-Mau C, Nicol M,
Niess V, Niet R, Nikitin N, Nikodem T, Novoselov A, O'Hanlon DP, Oblakowska-Mucha
A, Obraztsov V, Oggero S, Ogilvy S, Okhrimenko O, Oldeman R, Onderwater CJ,
Orlandea M, Otalora Goicochea JM, Otto A, Owen P, Oyanguren A, Pal BK, Palano A, 
Palombo F, Palutan M, Panman J, Papanestis A, Pappagallo M, Pappalardo LL, Parkes
C, Parkinson CJ, Passaleva G, Patel GD, Patel M, Patrignani C, Pearce A,
Pellegrino A, Penso G, Pepe Altarelli M, Perazzini S, Perret P, Perrin-Terrin M, 
Pescatore L, Pesen E, Petridis K, Petrolini A, Picatoste Olloqui E, Pietrzyk B,
Pilař T, Pinci D, Pistone A, Playfer S, Plo Casasus M, Polci F, Poluektov A,
Polyakov I, Polycarpo E, Popov A, Popov D, Popovici B, Potterat C, Price E, Price
JD, Prisciandaro J, Pritchard A, Prouve C, Pugatch V, Puig Navarro A, Punzi G,
Qian W, Rachwal B, Rademacker JH, Rakotomiaramanana B, Rama M, Rangel MS, Raniuk 
I, Rauschmayr N, Raven G, Redi F, Reichert S, Reid MM, Dos Reis AC, Ricciardi S, 
Richards S, Rihl M, Rinnert K, Rives Molina V, Robbe P, Rodrigues AB, Rodrigues
E, Rodriguez Perez P, Roiser S, Romanovsky V, Romero Vidal A, Rotondo M, Rouvinet
J, Ruf T, Ruiz H, Ruiz Valls P, Saborido Silva JJ, Sagidova N, Sail P, Saitta B, 
Salustino Guimaraes V, Sanchez Mayordomo C, Sanmartin Sedes B, Santacesaria R,
Santamarina Rios C, Santovetti E, Sarti A, Satriano C, Satta A, Saunders DM,
Savrina D, Schiller M, Schindler H, Schlupp M, Schmelling M, Schmidt B, Schneider
O, Schopper A, Schune MH, Schwemmer R, Sciascia B, Sciubba A, Semennikov A, Sepp 
I, Serra N, Serrano J, Sestini L, Seyfert P, Shapkin M, Shapoval I, Shcheglov Y, 
Shears T, Shekhtman L, Shevchenko V, Shires A, Silva Coutinho R, Simi G, Sirendi 
M, Skidmore N, Skillicorn I, Skwarnicki T, Smith NA, Smith E, Smith E, Smith J,
Smith M, Snoek H, Sokoloff MD, Soler FJ, Soomro F, Souza D, Souza De Paula B,
Spaan B, Spradlin P, Sridharan S, Stagni F, Stahl M, Stahl S, Steinkamp O,
Stenyakin O, Stevenson S, Stoica S, Stone S, Storaci B, Stracka S, Straticiuc M, 
Straumann U, Stroili R, Subbiah VK, Sun L, Sutcliffe W, Swientek K, Swientek S,
Syropoulos V, Szczekowski M, Szczypka P, Szumlak T, T'Jampens S, Teklishyn M,
Tellarini G, Teubert F, Thomas C, Thomas E, van Tilburg J, Tisserand V, Tobin M, 
Todd J, Tolk S, Tomassetti L, Tonelli D, Topp-Joergensen S, Torr N, Tournefier E,
Tourneur S, Tran MT, Tresch M, Trisovic A, Tsaregorodtsev A, Tsopelas P, Tuning
N, Ubeda Garcia M, Ukleja A, Ustyuzhanin A, Uwer U, Vacca C, Vagnoni V, Valenti
G, Vallier A, Vazquez Gomez R, Vazquez Regueiro P, Vázquez Sierra C, Vecchi S,
Velthuis JJ, Veltri M, Veneziano G, Vesterinen M, Viaud B, Vieira D, Vieites Diaz
M, Vilasis-Cardona X, Vollhardt A, Volyanskyy D, Voong D, Vorobyev A, Vorobyev V,
Voß C, de Vries JA, Waldi R, Wallace C, Wallace R, Walsh J, Wandernoth S, Wang J,
Ward DR, Watson NK, Websdale D, Whitehead M, Wicht J, Wiedner D, Wilkinson G,
Williams MP, Williams M, Wilschut HW, Wilson FF, Wimberley J, Wishahi J, Wislicki
W, Witek M, Wormser G, Wotton SA, Wright S, Wyllie K, Xie Y, Xing Z, Xu Z, Yang
Z, Yuan X, Yushchenko O, Zangoli M, Zavertyaev M, Zhang L, Zhang WC, Zhang Y,
Zhelezov A, Zhokhov A, Zhong L; (LHCb Collaboration).

Production of B_{c}^{+} mesons in proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass
energy of 8 TeV is studied with data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of
2.0  fb^{-1} recorded by the LHCb experiment. The ratio of production cross
sections times branching fractions between the B_{c}^{+}→J/ψπ^{+} and
B^{+}→J/ψK^{+} decays is measured as a function of transverse momentum and
rapidity in the regions 0<p_{T}<20  GeV/c and 2.0<y<4.5. The ratio in this
kinematic range is measured to be (0.683±0.018±0.009)%, where the first
uncertainty is statistical and the second systematic.

PMID: 25884121  [PubMed - in process]


132. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Mar 24;6:45. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.153876. eCollection
2015.

Glyphosate, pathways to modern diseases III: Manganese, neurological diseases,
and associated pathologies.

Samsel A(1), Seneff S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Scientist and Consultant, Deerfield, NH 03037, USA. (2)Spoken
Language Systems Group, Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, 
MIT, Cambridge MA 02139, USA.

Manganese (Mn) is an often overlooked but important nutrient, required in small
amounts for multiple essential functions in the body. A recent study on cows fed 
genetically modified Roundup(®)-Ready feed revealed a severe depletion of serum
Mn. Glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup(®), has also been shown to
severely deplete Mn levels in plants. Here, we investigate the impact of Mn on
physiology, and its association with gut dysbiosis as well as neuropathologies
such as autism, Alzheimer's disease (AD), depression, anxiety syndrome,
Parkinson's disease (PD), and prion diseases. Glutamate overexpression in the
brain in association with autism, AD, and other neurological diseases can be
explained by Mn deficiency. Mn superoxide dismutase protects mitochondria from
oxidative damage, and mitochondrial dysfunction is a key feature of autism and
Alzheimer's. Chondroitin sulfate synthesis depends on Mn, and its deficiency
leads to osteoporosis and osteomalacia. Lactobacillus, depleted in autism, depend
critically on Mn for antioxidant protection. Lactobacillus probiotics can treat
anxiety, which is a comorbidity of autism and chronic fatigue syndrome. Reduced
gut Lactobacillus leads to overgrowth of the pathogen, Salmonella, which is
resistant to glyphosate toxicity, and Mn plays a role here as well. Sperm
motility depends on Mn, and this may partially explain increased rates of
infertility and birth defects. We further reason that, under conditions of
adequate Mn in the diet, glyphosate, through its disruption of bile acid
homeostasis, ironically promotes toxic accumulation of Mn in the brainstem,
leading to conditions such as PD and prion diseases.

PMCID: PMC4392553
PMID: 25883837  [PubMed]


133. Neural Regen Res. 2015 Feb;10(2):308-13. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.152387.

Protective effects of a polysaccharide from Spirulina platensis on dopaminergic
neurons in an MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease model in C57BL/6J mice.

Zhang F(1), Lu J(2), Zhang JG(3), Xie JX(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Medical College of Qingdao University, Qingdao,
Shandong Province, China. (2)Department of Pharmacy, Xianyang Central Hospital,
Xianyang, Shaanxi Province, China. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Taishan Medical
College, Taian, Shandong Province, China. (4)Department of Physiology, Medical
College of Qingdao University, Qingdao, Shandong Province, China.

The present study aimed to determine whether a polysaccharide obtained from
Spirulina platensis shows protective effects on dopaminergic neurons. A
Parkinson's disease model was established through the intraperitoneal injection
of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in C57BL/6J mice. Prior to
the MPTP injection, some mice were pretreated with intraperitoneal injections of 
a polysaccharide derived from Spirulina platensis once daily for 10 days. The
results showed that the immunoreactive staining and mRNA expression of the
dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in
dopamine synthesis, in the substantia nigra, were significantly increased in mice
pretreated with 800 mg/kg of the polysaccharide compared with those in
MPTP-treated mice. The activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione
peroxidase in the serum and midbrain were also increased significantly in mice
injected with MPTP after pretreatment with the polysaccharide from Spirulina
platensis. By contrast, the activity of monoamine oxidase B in serum and midbrain
maintained unchanged. These experimental findings indicate that the
polysaccharide obtained from Spirulina platensis plays a protective role against 
the MPTP-induced loss of dopaminergic neurons in C57BL/6J mice, and that the
antioxidative properties of this polysaccharide likely underlie its
neuroprotective effect.

PMCID: PMC4392681
PMID: 25883632  [PubMed]


134. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Apr 1;9:114. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00114. eCollection
2015.

Expression analysis of the long non-coding RNA antisense to Uchl1 (AS Uchl1)
during dopaminergic cells' differentiation in vitro and in neurochemical models
of Parkinson's disease.

Carrieri C(1), Forrest AR(2), Santoro C(3), Persichetti F(3), Carninci P(2),
Zucchelli S(4), Gustincich S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Area of Neuroscience, International School for Advanced Studies (SISSA)
Trieste, Italy. (2)Division of Genomic Technologies, RIKEN Center for Life
Science Technologies Yokohama, Japan. (3)Dipartimento di Scienze della Salute,
Universita' del Piemonte Orientale Novara, Italy. (4)Area of Neuroscience,
International School for Advanced Studies (SISSA) Trieste, Italy ; Dipartimento
di Scienze della Salute, Universita' del Piemonte Orientale Novara, Italy.

Antisense (AS) transcripts are RNA molecules that are transcribed from the
opposite strand to sense (S) genes forming S/AS pairs. The most prominent
configuration is when a lncRNA is antisense to a protein coding gene. Increasing 
evidences prove that antisense transcription may control sense gene expression
acting at distinct regulatory levels. However, its contribution to brain function
and neurodegenerative diseases remains unclear. We have recently identified AS
Uchl1 as an antisense to the mouse Ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1
(Uchl1) gene (AS Uchl1), the synthenic locus of UCHL1/PARK5. This is mutated in
rare cases of early-onset familial Parkinson's Disease (PD) and loss of UCHL1
activity has been reported in many neurodegenerative diseases. Importantly,
manipulation of UchL1 expression has been proposed as tool for therapeutic
intervention. AS Uchl1 induces UchL1 expression by increasing its translation. It
is the representative member of SINEUPs (SINEB2 sequence to UP-regulate
translation), a new functional class of natural antisense lncRNAs that activate
translation of their sense genes. Here we take advantage of FANTOM5 dataset to
identify the transcription start sites associated to S/AS pair at Uchl1 locus. We
show that AS Uchl1 expression is under the regulation of Nurr1, a major
transcription factor involved in dopaminergic cells' differentiation and
maintenance. Furthermore, AS Uch1 RNA levels are strongly down-regulated in
neurochemical models of PD in vitro and in vivo. This work positions AS Uchl1 RNA
as a component of Nurr1-dependent gene network and target of cellular stress
extending our understanding on the role of antisense transcription in the brain.

PMCID: PMC4381646
PMID: 25883552  [PubMed]


135. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2015 Apr 13. pii: S0003-9993(15)00295-6. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2015.03.021. [Epub ahead of print]

How Should Pushing Off or the Use of Assistive Devices be Incorporated in the
Timed Up and Go for Persons with Parkinson's Disease?

Stegemöller EL(1), Schmidt P(2), Hass C(3), Malaty I(3), Okun MS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Iowa State University, Department of Kinesiology, Ames, IA USA; University of 
Florida Center for Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration, Gainesville, FL,
United States. Electronic address: esteg@iastate.edu. (2)National Parkinson
Foundation, Miami, FL, United States. (3)University of Florida Center for
Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration, Gainesville, FL, United States.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relationship between assisted TUG performance and the
PDQ-39, and to determine if adjusting the TUG score (adding time) improves the
relationship between TUG performance and the PDQ-39 in person with PD that use
assistive devices and/or push off.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional SETTING: 20 participating National Parkinson Foundation
Centers of Excellence in the United States, Canada, the Netherlands, and Israel.
PARTICIPANTS: Data were obtained from 6,624 participants without exclusion at 20 
participating sites.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The relationship between the TUG scores and PDQ-39 mobility
scores was determined using the method of linear least squares. Adjusted scores
were determined through minimizing the sum of the squared error.
RESULTS: The correlation between assisted TUG scores and PDQ-39 mobility was
slightly lower (R2 = 0.384) compared to the correlation between non-assisted TUG 
scores and PDQ-39 mobility scores (R2 = 0.409). Adjusting assisted TUG
performance scores for push off and for use of an assistive device resulted in a 
modest increase in correlation (R(2) = 0.399).
CONCLUSION: Applying adjustments to assisted TUG may provide clinically important
information for evaluating balance, mobility, and falls, and for determining the 
most effective therapeutic strategies for persons with PD.

Copyright © 2015 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25883039  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


136. Brain. 2015 Apr 15. pii: awv096. [Epub ahead of print]

Abnormal dopaminergic modulation of striato-cortical networks underlies
levodopa-induced dyskinesias in humans.

Herz DM(1), Haagensen BN(2), Christensen MS(3), Madsen KH(4), Rowe JB(5),
Løkkegaard A(6), Siebner HR(7).

Author information: 
(1)1 Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre,
Hvidovre, Denmark 2 Department of Neurology, Copenhagen University Hospital
Bispebjerg, Copenhagen, Denmark damianh@drcmr.dk. (2)1 Danish Research Centre for
Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and Diagnostic Imaging and Research,
Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark. (3)1 Danish Research 
Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and Diagnostic Imaging and
Research, Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark 3 Department
of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark 
4 Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark. (4)1 Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre
for Functional and Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University
Hospital Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark 5 DTU Compute, Technical University of
Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark. (5)6 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cambridge
University, Cambridge, UK 7 Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences
Unit, Cambridge, UK 8 Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Cambridge,
UK. (6)2 Department of Neurology, Copenhagen University Hospital Bispebjerg,
Copenhagen, Denmark. (7)1 Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre
for Functional and Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University
Hospital Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark 2 Department of Neurology, Copenhagen
University Hospital Bispebjerg, Copenhagen, Denmark 9 Department of Clinical
Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Dopaminergic signalling in the striatum contributes to reinforcement of actions
and motivational enhancement of motor vigour. Parkinson's disease leads to
progressive dopaminergic denervation of the striatum, impairing the function of
cortico-basal ganglia networks. While levodopa therapy alleviates basal ganglia
dysfunction in Parkinson's disease, it often elicits involuntary movements,
referred to as levodopa-induced peak-of-dose dyskinesias. Here, we used a novel
pharmacodynamic neuroimaging approach to identify the changes in cortico-basal
ganglia connectivity that herald the emergence of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Twenty-six patients with Parkinson's disease (age range: 51-84 years; 11 females)
received a single dose of levodopa and then performed a task in which they had to
produce or suppress a movement in response to visual cues. Task-related activity 
was continuously mapped with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Dynamic
causal modelling was applied to assess levodopa-induced modulation of effective
connectivity between the pre-supplementary motor area, primary motor cortex and
putamen when patients suppressed a motor response. Bayesian model selection
revealed that patients who later developed levodopa-induced dyskinesias, but not 
patients without dyskinesias, showed a linear increase in connectivity between
the putamen and primary motor cortex after levodopa intake during movement
suppression. Individual dyskinesia severity was predicted by levodopa-induced
modulation of striato-cortical feedback connections from putamen to the
pre-supplementary motor area (Pcorrected = 0.020) and primary motor cortex
(Pcorrected = 0.044), but not feed-forward connections from the cortex to the
putamen. Our results identify for the first time, aberrant dopaminergic
modulation of striatal-cortical connectivity as a neural signature of
levodopa-induced dyskinesias in humans. We argue that excessive striato-cortical 
connectivity in response to levodopa produces an aberrant reinforcement signal
producing an abnormal motor drive that ultimately triggers involuntary movements.

© The Author (2015). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Guarantors of Brain.

PMID: 25882651  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


137. Sleep Med. 2015 May;16(5):583-8. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2014.11.020. Epub 2015 Mar 
3.

Emergence of restless legs syndrome after subthalamic stimulation in Parkinson's 
disease: a dopaminergic overstimulation?

Marques A(1), Fantini ML(2), Morand D(3), Pereira B(3), Derost P(4), Ulla M(4),
Debilly B(4), Lemaire JJ(5), Durif F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Department, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, F-63001 Clermont-Ferrand, France; 
UFR Medicine, University Clermont 1, EA 7280, F-63001 Clermont-Ferrand, France.
Electronic address: ar_marques@chu-clermontferrand.fr. (2)UFR Medicine,
University Clermont 1, EA 7280, F-63001 Clermont-Ferrand, France. (3)Délégation à
la Recherche Clinique et à l'Innovation DRCI, CHU Clermont-Ferrand,
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (4)Neurology Department, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, F-63001 
Clermont-Ferrand, France; UFR Medicine, University Clermont 1, EA 7280, F-63001
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (5)Neurosurgery Department, CHU Clermont-Ferrand,
F-63001 Clermont-Ferrand, France.

OBJECTIVE: Studies investigating the effects of subthalamic deep-brain
stimulation (DBS-STN) on restless legs syndrome (RLS) in Parkinson's disease (PD)
are limited and report conflicting results, with some describing the emergence of
RLS after DBS-STN, while others report postoperative improvement of this
disorder. Severe decrease in postoperative dopaminergic medications dose, which
may unmask RLS symptoms, has been proposed to explain the emergence of RLS after 
surgery. We aimed to specifically identify factors associated with the risk of
developing RLS after DBS-STN in order to enhance our comprehension of the
underlying mechanisms contributing to the development of RLS in PD.
PATIENTS: In this observational prospective study, we evaluated the occurrence of
RLS in 31 patients with PD originally free from RLS symptoms, six months after
bilateral chronic DBS-STN, and compared clinical and treatment parameters of
patients who developed postoperative RLS with those of patients without
postoperative RLS.
RESULTS: Six patients out of 31 reported post-operative emergence of RLS. There
was no between-group difference in demographic data, pre-operative treatment
parameters or clinical improvement measures after DBS-STN. However, PD patients
with emergence of RLS after DBS-STN had a higher dose of dopamine agonists at
postoperative evaluation compared to PD patients without emergence of RLS
(p = 0.040) and a lower percentage of decrease in dopamine agonists (p = 0.043).
CONCLUSION: Overstimulation resulting from cumulative effects of dopamine
agonists and STN-DBS may induce changes in excitability of the dopaminergic
system, leading to an emergence of RLS. Clinicians should take into account this 
phenomenon while adjusting pharmacological treatment after surgery.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25881920  [PubMed - in process]


138. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26244. [Epub ahead of print]

Pallidal activity in myoclonus dystonia correlates with motor signs.

Welter ML(1), Grabli D, Karachi C, Jodoin N, Fernandez-Vidal S, Brun Y, Navarro
S, Rogers A, Cornu P, Pidoux B, Yelnik J, Roze E, Bardinet E, Vidailhet M.

Author information: 
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6, Centre de Recherche de l'Institut du
Cerveau et de la Moelle épiniere (CRICM), UMR-S975, Paris, France; Inserm, U1127,
Paris, France; CNRS, UMR 7225, Paris, France; Centre d'Investigation Clinique
Pitié Neurosciences (Inserm CIC-1422), Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière,
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France; Département de Neurologie, 
Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris,
Paris, France.

Myoclonus-dystonia related to epsilon-sarcoglycan gene mutations is characterized
by myoclonic jerks and mild to moderate dystonia. The role of basal ganglia
dysfunction in the pathogenesis is unknown. Pallidal neuronal activity was
recorded in six myoclonus-dystonia and six primary generalized dystonia patients 
operated on for internal globus pallidus deep brain stimulation. In
myoclonus-dystonia patients compared with primary-dystonia patients, internal
pallidum neurons showed higher burst frequency, lower mean burst, and pause
durations. External pallidum neurons showed higher mean pause frequency.
Oscillatory activity was present in 33% and 35% of internal pallidum neurons in
myoclonus-dystonia and primary-dystonia patients, respectively, predominantly in 
the theta frequency band (3-8 Hz). In myoclonus-dystonia patients with more
severe myoclonus, internal pallidum neurons exhibited a higher bursting activity 
with high intraburst frequency and lower oscillatory activity frequency.
Myoclonus-dystonia appears to be related to specific changes in internal pallidum
activity, leading to disruption in striato-pallido-thalamo-cortical circuits. ©
2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25880339  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


139. Neuromodulation. 2015 Apr 16. doi: 10.1111/ner.12297. [Epub ahead of print]

Tremor Reduction by Deep Brain Stimulation Is Associated With Gamma Power
Suppression in Parkinson's Disease.

Beudel M(1), Little S, Pogosyan A, Ashkan K, Foltynie T, Limousin P, Zrinzo L,
Hariz M, Bogdanovic M, Cheeran B, Green AL, Aziz T, Thevathasan W, Brown P.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital,
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; Department of Neurology, University Medical
Centre Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Rest tremor is a cardinal symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD), and is
readily suppressed by deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus
(STN). The therapeutic effect of the latter on bradykinesia and rigidity has been
associated with the suppression of exaggerated beta (13-30 Hz) band
synchronization in the vicinity of the stimulating electrode, but there is no
correlation between beta suppression and tremor amplitude. In the present study, 
we investigate whether tremor suppression is related to suppression of activities
at other frequencies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We recorded hand tremor and contralateral local field
potential (LFP) activity from DBS electrodes during stimulation of the STN in 15 
hemispheres in 11 patients with PD. DBS was applied with increasing voltages
starting at 0.5 V until tremor suppression was achieved or until 4.5 V was
reached.
RESULTS: Tremor was reduced to 48.9% ± 10.9% of that without DBS once stimulation
reached 2.5-3 V (t14 = -4.667, p < 0.001). There was a parallel suppression of
low gamma (31-45 Hz) power to 92.5% ± 3% (t14 = -2.348, p = 0.034). This was not 
seen over a band containing tremor frequencies and their harmonic (4-12 Hz), or
over the beta band. Moreover, low gamma power correlated with tremor severity
(mean r = 0.43 ± 0.14, p = 0.008) within subjects. This was not the case for LFP 
power in the other two bands.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support a relationship between low gamma oscillations
and PD tremor, and reinforce the principle that the subthalamic LFP is a rich
signal that may contain information about the severity of multiple different
Parkinsonian features.

© 2015 The Authors. Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface published
by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Neuromodulation Society.

PMID: 25879998  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


140. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26231. [Epub ahead of print]

Oscillatory head movements in cervical dystonia: Dystonia, Tremor, or both?

Shaikh AG(1), Zee DS, Jinnah HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Cervical dystonia is characterized by abnormal posturing of the head, often
combined with tremor-like oscillatory head movements. The nature and source of
these oscillatory head movements is controversial, so they were quantified to
delineate their characteristics and develop a hypothetical model for their
genesis. A magnetic search coil system was used to measure head movements in 14
subjects with cervical dystonia. Two distinct types of oscillatory head movements
were detected for most subjects, even when they were not clinically evident. One 
type had a relatively large amplitude and jerky irregular pattern, and the other 
had smaller amplitude with a more regular and sinusoidal pattern. The kinematic
properties of these two types of oscillatory head movements were distinct,
although both were often combined in the same subject. Both had features
suggestive of a defect in a central neural integrator. The combination of
different types of oscillatory head movements in cervical dystonia helps to
clarify some of the current debates regarding whether they should be considered
as manifestations of dystonia or tremor and provides novel insights into their
potential pathogenesis. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25879911  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


141. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26228. [Epub ahead of print]

Premonitory urge to tic in tourette's is associated with interoceptive awareness.

Ganos C(1), Garrido A, Navalpotro-Gómez I, Ricciardi L, Martino D, Edwards MJ,
Tsakiris M, Haggard P, Bhatia KP.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, UCL Institute 
of Neurology, University College London, London, UK; Department of Neurology,
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: A contribution of aberrant interoceptive awareness to the perception 
of premonitory urges in Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) has been
hypothesized.
METHODS: We assessed interoceptive awareness in 19 adults with GTS and 25
age-matched healthy controls using the heartbeat counting task. We also used
multiple regression to explore whether the severity of premonitory urges was
predicted by interoceptive awareness or severity of tics and obsessive-compulsive
symptoms.
RESULTS: We observed lower interoceptive awareness in GTS compared with controls.
Interoceptive awareness was the strongest predictor of premonitory urges in GTS, 
with greater interoceptive awareness being associated with more urges. Greater
tic severity was also associated with higher rates of premonitory urges.
CONCLUSION: The observed relationship between severity of premonitory urges and
interoceptive awareness suggests that interoception might be involved in
self-reported premonitory urges in GTS. High levels of interoceptive awareness
might reflect a self-attentive capacity to perceive urges. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25879819  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


142. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26227. [Epub ahead of print]

Sensorimotor processing for balance in spinocerebellar ataxia type 6.

Bunn LM(1), Marsden JF, Voyce DC, Giunti P, Day BL.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, UCL Institute 
of Neurology, London, UK; School of Health Professions, Peninsula Allied Health
Centre, University of Plymouth, UK.

We investigated whether balance impairments caused by cerebellar disease are
associated with specific sensorimotor processing deficits that generalize across 
all sensory modalities. Experiments focused on the putative cerebellar functions 
of scaling and coordinate transformation of balance responses evoked by
stimulation of single sensory channels. Vestibular, visual, and proprioceptive
sensory channels were stimulated in isolation using galvanic vestibular
stimulation, moving visual scenery, and muscle vibration, respectively, in 16
subjects with spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6) and 16 matched healthy
controls. Two polarities of each stimulus type evoked postural responses of
similar form in the forward and backward directions. Disease severity was
assessed using the Scale for Assessment and Rating of Ataxia. Impaired balance of
SCA6 subjects during unperturbed stance was reflected in faster than normal body 
sway (P = 0.009), which correlated with disease severity (r = 0.705, P < 0.001). 
Sensory perturbations revealed a sensorimotor processing abnormality that was
specific to response scaling for the visual channel. This manifested as visually 
evoked postural responses that were approximately three times larger than normal 
(backward, P < 0.001; forward P = 0.005) and correlated with disease severity
(r = 0.543, P = 0.03). Response direction and habituation properties were no
different from controls for all three sensory modalities. Cerebellar degeneration
disturbs the scaling of postural responses evoked by visual motion, possibly
through disinhibition of extracerebellar visuomotor centers. The excessively high
gain of the visuomotor channel without compensatory decreases in gains of other
sensorimotor channels provides a potential mechanism for instability of the
balance control system in cerebellar disease. © 2015 International Parkinson and 
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25879732  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


143. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26191. [Epub ahead of print]

Amyloid deposition in Parkinson's disease and cognitive impairment: A systematic 
review.

Petrou M(1), Dwamena BA, Foerster BR, MacEachern MP, Bohnen NI, Müller ML, Albin 
RL, Frey KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA;
Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Varying degrees of cortical amyloid deposition are reported in the setting of
Parkinsonism with cognitive impairment. We performed a systematic review to
estimate the prevalence of Alzheimer disease (AD) range cortical amyloid
deposition among patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD),
Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) and dementia with
Lewy bodies (DLB). We included amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging
studies using Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB). We searched the databases Ovid
MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Web of Science for articles pertaining to
amyloid imaging in Parkinsonism and impaired cognition. We identified 11 articles
using PiB imaging to quantify cortical amyloid. We used the metan module in
Stata, version 11.0, to calculate point prevalence estimates of patients with
"PiB-positive" studies, that is, patients showing AD range cortical Aβ-amyloid
deposition. Heterogeneity was assessed. A scatterplot was used to assess
publication bias. Overall pooled prevalence of "PiB-positive" studies across all 
three entities along the spectrum of Parkinson's disease and impaired cognition
(specifically PDD, PD-MCI, and DLB) was 0.41 (95% confidence interval [CI],
0.24-0.57). Prevalence of "PiB-positive" studies was 0.68 (95% CI, 0.55-0.82) in 
the DLB group, 0.34 (95% CI, 0.13-0.56) in the PDD group, and 0.05 (95% CI,
-0.07-0.17) in the PD-MCI group. Substantial variability occurs in the prevalence
of "PiB-positive" studies in subjects with Parkinsonism and cognitive impairment.
Higher prevalence of PiB-positive studies was encountered among subjects with DLB
as opposed to subjects with PDD. The PD-MCI subjects showed overall lower
prevalence of PiB-positive studies than reported findings in non-PD-related MCI. 
© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25879534  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


144. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 15;35(15):6231-40. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4137-14.2015.

Modulations in oscillatory frequency and coupling in globus pallidus with
increasing parkinsonian severity.

Connolly AT(1), Jensen AL(2), Bello EM(1), Netoff TI(1), Baker KB(2), Johnson
MD(3), Vitek JL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and. (2)Department of Neurology,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455 and. (3)Department of
Biomedical Engineering and Institute for Translational Neuroscience, University
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455. (4)Department of Neurology,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455 and vitek004@umn.edu.

While beta oscillations often occur within the parkinsonian basal ganglia, how
these oscillations emerge from a naive state and change with disease severity is 
not clear. To address this question, a progressive, nonhuman primate model of
Parkinson's disease was developed using staged injections of MPTP. Within each
parkinsonian state (naive, mild, moderate, and severe), spontaneous local field
potentials were recorded throughout the sensorimotor globus pallidus. In the
naive state, beta oscillations (11-32 Hz) occurred in half of the recordings,
indicating spontaneous beta oscillations in globus pallidus are not
pathognomonic. Mild and moderate states were characterized by a narrower
distribution of beta frequencies that shifted toward the 8-15 Hz range.
Additionally, coupling between the phase of beta and the amplitude of
high-frequency oscillations (256-362 Hz) emerged in the mild state and increased 
with severity. These findings provide a novel mechanistic framework to understand
how progressive loss of dopamine translates into abnormal information processing 
in the pallidum through alterations in oscillatory activity. The results suggest 
that rather than the emergence of oscillatory activity in one frequency spectrum 
or the other, parkinsonian motor signs may relate more to the development of
altered coupling across multiple frequency spectrums.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/356231-10$15.00/0.

PMID: 25878293  [PubMed - in process]


145. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Apr 15:jn.00840.2014. doi: 10.1152/jn.00840.2014. [Epub
ahead of print]

Classification of Pallidal Oscillations with Increasing Parkinsonian Severity.

Connolly AT(1), Jensen AL(1), Baker KB(1), Vitek JL(2), Johnson MD(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Minnesota. (2)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota. 
(3)University of Minnesota john5101@umn.edu.

The firing patterns of neurons in the basal ganglia are known to become more
oscillatory and synchronized from healthy to parkinsonian conditions. Similar
changes have been observed with local field potentials (LFPs). In this study, we 
used an unbiased machine learning approach to investigate the utility of pallidal
LFPs for discriminating the stages of a progressive parkinsonian model. A feature
selection algorithm was used to identify sub-sets of LFP features that provided
the most discriminatory information for severity of parkinsonian motor signs.
Prediction errors <20% were achievable using 28 of the possible 206 features
tested. For all subjects, a spectral feature within the beta band was chosen
through the feature selection algorithm, but a combination of features, including
alpha band power and phase-amplitude coupling, was necessary to achieve minimal
prediction errors. There was large variability between the discriminatory
features for individual subjects and testing of classifiers between subjects
yielded prediction errors >50%. These results suggest that pallidal oscillations 
can be predictive biomarkers of parkinsonian severity, but the features are more 
complex than spectral power in individual frequency bands, such as the beta band.
Additionally, the best feature set was subject-specific, which highlights the
pathophysiological heterogeneity of parkinsonism and importance of subject
specificity when designing closed loop system controllers dependent on such
features.

Copyright © 2014, Journal of Neurophysiology.

PMID: 25878156  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


146. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Apr 15. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12762. [Epub ahead of print]

Cholinergic interneurons in the dorsal and ventral striatum: anatomical and
functional considerations in normal and diseased conditions.

Gonzales KK(1), Smith Y.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Department of Neurology and Udall
Center of Excellence for Parkinson's Disease Research, Emory University, Atlanta,
Georgia; Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Mailman School of Public
Health, Columbia University, New York, New York.

Striatal cholinergic interneurons (ChIs) are central for the processing and
reinforcement of reward-related behaviors that are negatively affected in states 
of altered dopamine transmission, such as in Parkinson's disease or drug
addiction. Nevertheless, the development of therapeutic interventions directed at
ChIs has been hampered by our limited knowledge of the diverse anatomical and
functional characteristics of these neurons in the dorsal and ventral striatum,
combined with the lack of pharmacological tools to modulate specific cholinergic 
receptor subtypes. This review highlights some of the key morphological,
synaptic, and functional differences between ChIs of different striatal regions
and across species. It also provides an overview of our current knowledge of the 
cellular localization and function of cholinergic receptor subtypes. The future
use of high-resolution anatomical and functional tools to study the synaptic
microcircuitry of brain networks, along with the development of specific
cholinergic receptor drugs, should help further elucidate the role of striatal
ChIs and permit efficient targeting of cholinergic systems in various brain
disorders, including Parkinson's disease and addiction.

© 2015 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 25876458  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


147. J Appl Toxicol. 2015 Apr 15. doi: 10.1002/jat.3144. [Epub ahead of print]

Acrylamide induces locomotor defects and degeneration of dopamine neurons in
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Li J(1), Li D, Yang Y, Xu T, Li P, He D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Toxicology, School of Ecological and Environmental Sciences,
East China Normal University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China; Shanghai Key 
Laboratory for Urban Ecological Processes and Eco-Restoration, Shanghai, People's
Republic of China.

Acrylamide can form in foods during the cooking process and cause multiple
adverse effects. However, the neurotoxicity and mechanisms of acrylamide have not
been fully elucidated. In Caenorhabditis elegans, we showed that 48 h exposure to
10-625 mg l(-1) acrylamide resulted in a significant decline in locomotor
frequency of body bending, head thrashing and pharynx pumping. In addition,
acrylamide exposure reduced crawling speeds and changed angles of body bending.
It indicates that acrylamide induces locomotor defects, along with
parkinsonian-like movement impairment, including bradykinesia and hypokinesia.
Acrylamide also affected chemotaxis plasticity and reduced learning ability.
Using transgenic nematodes, we found that acrylamide induced downexpression of
Pdat-1 and led to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Moreover, the
enhanced expression of unc-54, encoding a subunit of α-synuclein was found. It
illustrates that acrylamide is efficient in inducing crucial parkinsonian
pathology, including dopaminergic damage and α-synuclein aggregation. These
findings suggest the acrylamide-induced locomotor defects and neurotoxicity are
associated with Parkinson's disease. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25876170  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


148. Somatosens Mot Res. 2015 Apr 15:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of dual-task training on balance and executive functions in Parkinson's
disease: A pilot study.

Fernandes Â(1), Rocha N, Santos R, Tavares JM.

Author information: 
(1)Escola Superior da Tecnologia de Saúde do Instituto Politécnico do Porto, Área
Científica de Terapia Ocupacional, Centro de Estudos de Movimento e Actividade
Humana , Vila Nova de Gaia , Portugal .

The aim of this study was to analyze the efficacy of cognitive-motor dual-task
training compared with single-task training on balance and executive functions in
individuals with Parkinson's disease. Fifteen subjects, aged between 39 and
75 years old, were randomly assigned to the dual-task training group (n = 8) and 
single-task training group (n = 7). The training was run twice a week for
6 weeks. The single-task group received balance training and the dual-task group 
performed cognitive tasks simultaneously with the balance training. There were no
significant differences between the two groups at baseline. After the
intervention, the results for mediolateral sway with eyes closed were
significantly better for the dual-task group and anteroposterior sway with eyes
closed was significantly better for the single-task group. The results suggest
superior outcomes for the dual-task training compared to the single-task training
for static postural control, except in anteroposterior sway with eyes closed.

PMID: 25874637  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


149. Brain Behav. 2015 Mar 25:e00320. [Epub ahead of print]

Pain in multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy compared to
Parkinson's disease.

Kass-Iliyya L(1), Kobylecki C(1), McDonald KR(2), Gerhard A(1), Silverdale MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology Greater Manchester Neurosciences Centre Salford Royal 
NHS Foundation Trust Stott Lane M6 8HD Salford U.K ; Centre for Clinical and
Cognitive Neurosciences Institute of Brain Behaviour and Mental Health University
of Manchester Manchester U.K. (2)Centre for Clinical and Cognitive Neurosciences 
Institute of Brain Behaviour and Mental Health University of Manchester
Manchester U.K.

BACKGROUND: Pain is a common nonmotor symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD). The
pathophysiology of pain in PD is not well understood. Pain characteristics have
rarely been studied in atypical parkinsonian disorders such as Multiple System
Atrophy (MSA) and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP).
AIM OF THE STUDY: We aimed to evaluate pain intensity, location, and associated
symptoms in atypical parkinsonian disorders compared to PD.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients with MSA, 16 patients with PSP, and 65 patients with
PD were screened for pain using question 1.9 of the MDS-UPDRS. Pain intensity was
quantified using the short form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SFMPQ). Pain locations
were documented. Motor disability was measured using UPDRS-III. Affective
symptoms were assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).
RESULTS: Pain was significantly more common and more severe in PD and MSA
compared to PSP (P < 0.01). Pain locations were similar with limb pain being the 
most common followed by neck and back pain. Pain intensity correlated with HADS
scores but not motor severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Pain is more common and more intense in PD and MSA than PSP.
Differences in distribution of neurodegenerative pathologies may underlie these
differential pain profiles.

PMCID: PMC4389053
PMID: 25874161  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


150. Front Neurol. 2015 Mar 31;6:71. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2015.00071. eCollection 2015.

Rational pharmacological approaches for cognitive dysfunction and depression in
Parkinson's disease.

Sandoval-Rincón M(1), Sáenz-Farret M(2), Miguel-Puga A(3), Micheli F(4),
Arias-Carrión O(5).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Trastornos del Movimiento y Sueño, Hospital General Ajusco Medio,
Secretaría de Salud , Mexico City , Mexico. (2)Unidad de Trastornos del
Movimiento y Sueño, Hospital General Ajusco Medio, Secretaría de Salud , Mexico
City , Mexico ; Programa de Parkinson y Movimientos Anormales, Hospital de
Clínicas "José de San Martín," Universidad de Buenos Aires , Buenos Aires ,
Argentina. (3)Unidad de Trastornos del Movimiento y Sueño, Hospital General Dr.
Manuel Gea González, Secretaría de Salud , Mexico City , Mexico. (4)Programa de
Parkinson y Movimientos Anormales, Hospital de Clínicas "José de San Martín,"
Universidad de Buenos Aires , Buenos Aires , Argentina. (5)Unidad de Trastornos
del Movimiento y Sueño, Hospital General Ajusco Medio, Secretaría de Salud ,
Mexico City , Mexico ; Unidad de Trastornos del Movimiento y Sueño, Hospital
General Dr. Manuel Gea González, Secretaría de Salud , Mexico City , Mexico.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is not a single entity but rather a heterogeneous
neurodegenerative disorder. The present study aims to conduct a critical
systematic review of the literature to describe the main pharmacological
strategies to treat cognitive dysfunction and major depressive disorder in PD
patients. We performed a search of articles cited in PubMed from 2004 to 2014
using the following MeSH terms (Medical subject headings) "Parkinson disease";
"Delirium," "Dementia," "Amnestic," "Cognitive disorders," and "Parkinson
disease"; "depression," "major depressive disorder," "drug therapy." We found a
total of 71 studies related to pharmacological treatment in cognitive dysfunction
and 279 studies for pharmacological treatment in major depressive disorder. After
fulfillment of all the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 13 articles remained for
cognitive dysfunction and 11 for major depressive disorder, which are presented
and discussed in this study. Further research into non-motor symptoms of PD may
provide insights into mechanisms of neurodegeneration, and provide better quality
of life by using rational drugs.

PMCID: PMC4379942
PMID: 25873910  [PubMed]


151. Front Behav Neurosci. 2015 Mar 31;9:68. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00068.
eCollection 2015.

Nigral proteasome inhibition in mice leads to motor and non-motor deficits and
increased expression of Ser129 phosphorylated α-synuclein.

Bentea E(1), Van der Perren A(2), Van Liefferinge J(3), El Arfani A(3), Albertini
G(3), Demuyser T(3), Merckx E(1), Michotte Y(3), Smolders I(3), Baekelandt V(2), 
Massie A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Molecular Biology, Center for
Neurosciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel Brussels, Belgium. (2)Laboratory for
Neurobiology and Gene Therapy, Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven Leuven,
Belgium. (3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Drug Analysis, Center for 
Neurosciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel Brussels, Belgium.

Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and
non-motor disturbances. Various pathogenic pathways drive disease progression
including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, α-synuclein aggregation
and impairment of protein degradation systems. Dysfunction of the
ubiquitin-proteasome system in the substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease
patients is believed to be one of the causes of protein aggregation and cell
death associated with this disorder. Lactacystin, a potent inhibitor of the
proteasome, was previously delivered to the nigrostriatal pathway of rodents to
model nigrostriatal degeneration. Although lactacystin-treated animals develop
parkinsonian motor impairment, it is currently unknown whether they also develop 
non-motor symptoms characteristic of this disorder. In order to further describe 
the proteasome inhibition model of Parkinson's disease, we characterized the
unilateral lactacystin model, performed by stereotaxic injection of the toxin in 
the substantia nigra of mice. We studied the degree of neurodegeneration and the 
behavioral phenotype 1 and 3 weeks after lactacystin lesion both in terms of
motor impairment, as well as non-motor symptoms. We report that unilateral
administration of 3 μg lactacystin to the substantia nigra of mice leads to
partial (~40%) dopaminergic cell loss and concurrent striatal dopamine depletion,
accompanied by increased expression of Ser129-phosphorylated α-synuclein.
Behavioral characterization of the model revealed parkinsonian motor impairment, 
as well as signs of non-motor disturbances resembling early stage Parkinson's
disease including sensitive and somatosensory deficits, anxiety-like behavior,
and perseverative behavior. The consistent finding of good face validity,
together with relevant construct validity, warrant a further evaluation of
proteasome inhibition models of Parkinson's disease in pre-clinical research and 
validation of therapeutic targets.

PMCID: PMC4379937
PMID: 25873870  [PubMed]


152. Front Neurosci. 2015 Mar 31;9:101. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2015.00101. eCollection
2015.

Morphological alterations in the caudate, putamen, pallidum, and thalamus in
Parkinson's disease.

Garg A(1), Appel-Cresswell S(2), Popuri K(1), McKeown MJ(2), Beg MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Image Analysis Laboratory, School of Engineering Science, Simon Fraser
University Burnaby, BC, Canada. (2)Neurology, Pacific Parkinson's Research
Center, University of British Columbia Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Like many neurodegenerative diseases, the clinical symptoms of Parkinsons disease
(PD) do not manifest until significant progression of the disease has already
taken place, motivating the need for sensitive biomarkers of the disease. While
structural imaging is a potentially attractive method due to its widespread
availability and non-invasive nature, global morphometric measures (e.g., volume)
have proven insensitive to subtle disease change. Here we use individual surface 
displacements from deformations of an average surface model to capture disease
related changes in shape of the subcortical structures in PD. Data were obtained 
from both the University of British Columbia (UBC) [n = 54 healthy controls (HC) 
and n = 55 Parkinsons disease (PD) patients] and the publicly available
Parkinsons Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) [n = 137 (HC) and n = 189 (PD)] 
database. A high dimensional non-rigid registration algorithm was used to
register target segmentation labels (caudate, putamen, pallidum, and thalamus) to
a set of segmentation labels defined on the average-template. The vertex-wise
surface displacements were significantly different between PD and HC in thalamic 
and caudate structures. However, overall displacements did not correlate with
disease severity, as assessed by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
(UPDRS). The results from this study suggest disease-relevant shape abnormalities
can be robustly detected in subcortical structures in PD. Future studies will be 
required to determine if shape changes in subcortical structures are seen in the 
prodromal phases of the disease.

PMCID: PMC4379878
PMID: 25873854  [PubMed]


153. Pharmacogenomics. 2015 Apr;16(6):573-82. doi: 10.2217/pgs.15.23. Epub 2015 Apr
15.

Is there a role for ADORA2A polymorphisms in levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
Parkinson's disease patients?

Rieck M(1), Schumacher-Schuh AF, Callegari-Jacques SM, Altmann V, Schneider
Medeiros M, Rieder CR, Hutz MH.

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Genética, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande do Sul, Caixa postal 15053, Porto Alegre, RS, 91501-970, Brazil.

AIM: Levodopa is first line treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, its
use is associated with the presence of motor fluctuations and dyskinesias. In
recent years, adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) is rising as a therapeutic target for
PD. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether ADORA2A is associated
with levodopa adverse effects.
PATIENTS & METHODS: Two hundred and eight PD patients on levodopa therapy were
investigated. rs2298383 and rs3761422 at the ADORA2A gene were genotyped by
allelic discrimination assays.
RESULTS: A trend for association was observed for both polymorphism and
diplotypes with dyskinesia.
CONCLUSION: The present results should be considered as positive preliminary
evidence. Further studies are needed to determine the association between ADORA2A
and dyskinesia. Original submitted 3 December 2014; Revision submitted 13
February 2015.

PMID: 25872644  [PubMed - in process]


154. Front Aging Neurosci. 2015 Mar 27;7:39. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2015.00039.
eCollection 2015.

ER proteostasis disturbances in Parkinson's disease: novel insights.

Mercado G(1), Castillo V(1), Vidal R(2), Hetz C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Biomedical Neuroscience Institute, University of Chile
Santiago, Chile ; Program of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Institute of
Biomedical Sciences, University of Chile Santiago, Chile. (2)Faculty of Medicine,
Biomedical Neuroscience Institute, University of Chile Santiago, Chile ;
Neurounion Biomedical Foundation, CENPAR Santiago, Chile. (3)Faculty of Medicine,
Biomedical Neuroscience Institute, University of Chile Santiago, Chile ; Program 
of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University
of Chile Santiago, Chile ; Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases,
Harvard School of Public Health Boston, MA, USA.

PMCID: PMC4376001
PMID: 25870559  [PubMed]


155. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Apr 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Apathy and Impulsive Control Disorders: Yin & Yang of Dopamine Dependent
Behaviors.

Sierra M(1), Carnicella S(2), Strafella AP(3), Bichon A(4), Lhommée E(4),
Castrioto A(4), Chabardes S(5), Thobois S(6), Krack P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Service of Neurology, University Hospital "Marqués de Valdecilla (IFIMAV)",
University of Cantabria and "Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED)", Santander, Spain. (2)INSERM, Unit
836, Grenoble Institut des Neurosciences, Grenoble, France. (3)Morton and Gloria 
Shulman Movement Disorder Unit - E.J. Safra Parkinson Disease Program, Toronto
Western Hospital and Research Institute, UHN & Research Imaging Centre, Campbell 
Family Mental Health Research Institute, CAMH, University of Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. (4)Movement Disorder Unit, Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, CHU de
Grenoble, Joseph Fourier University, Grenoble Universités, France; and INSERM,
Unit 836, Grenoble Institut des Neurosciences, Grenoble, France. (5)Department of
Department CHU de Grenoble, Joseph Fourier University, Grenoble, France and
INSERM, Unité 836, Grenoble Institut des Neurosciences, Grenoble, France.
(6)Université de Lyon, F-69622, Lyon, France; Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne,
France; CNRS, UMR5229, Centre de Neuroscience Cognitive, Bron, France; Hôpital
Neurologique Pierre Wertheimer, Hospices Civils de Lyon, France.

Neuropsychiatric symptoms are common non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease
(PD). Apathy and impulse control disorders (ICD) are two opposite motivational
expressions of a continuous behavioural spectrum involving hypo- and
hyperdopaminergia. Both syndromes share pathological (decreased vs increased)
dopamine receptor stimulation states. Apathy belongs to the spectrum of
hypodopaminergic symptoms together with anhedonia, anxiety and depression. Apathy
is a key symptom of PD which worsens with disease progression. Animal models,
imaging and pharmacological studies concur in pointing out dopaminergic
denervation in the aetiology of parkinsonian apathy with a cardinal role of
decreased tonic D2/D3 receptor stimulation. ICDs are part of the
hyperdopaminergic behavioural spectrum, which also includes punding, and dopamine
dysregulation syndrome (DDS), which are all related to non-physiological
dopaminergic stimulation induced by antiparkinsonian drugs. According to clinical
data tonic D2/D3 receptor stimulation can be sufficient to induce ICDs. Clinical 
observations in drug addiction and PD as well as data from studies in dopamine
depleted rodents provide hints allowing to argue that both pulsatile D1 and D2
receptor stimulation and the severity of dopaminergic denervation are risk
factors to develop punding behavior and DDS. Imaging studies have shown that the 
brain structures involved in drug addiction are also involved in
hyperdopaminergic behaviours with increase of bottom-up appetitive drive and
decrease in prefrontal top down behavioural control.

PMID: 25870025  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


156. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Apr 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Concerns About Falling in Parkinson's Disease: Associations with Disabilities and
Personal and Environmental Factors.

Jonasson SB(1), Ullén S(2), Iwarsson S(3), Lexell J(1), Nilsson MH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden Department of
Neurology and Rehabilitation, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. (2)R & D
Centre, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. (3)Department of Health
Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. (4)Department of Health Sciences, Lund
University, Lund, Sweden Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Fear of falling can be conceptualized in different ways, e.g., as
concerns about falling or low fall-related self-efficacy. It is common in people 
with Parkinson's disease (PD), and there is growing knowledge about its
contributing factors. However, previous multivariate studies have mainly focused 
on fear of falling in relation to PD-related disabilities, and less is known
about the associations between fear of falling and personal and environmental
factors.
OBJECTIVE: To identify explanatory factors of concerns about falling in people
with PD by focusing on personal and environmental factors as well as PD-related
disabilities.
METHODS: Data were collected from 241 persons with PD (39% women, median age 70
years, PD duration 8 years). Concerns about falling (assessed with the Falls
Efficacy Scale-International, FES-I; categorized into low, moderate, or high
concerns) were used as the dependent variable in a multivariate ordinal
regression analysis. Personal factors, environmental factors and PD-related
disabilities constituted independent variables.
RESULTS: Low, moderate and high concerns about falling were reported by 29%, 24% 
and 47% of the participants, respectively. Walking difficulties, orthostatism,
motor symptoms, age, and fatigue (presented in order of importance) were
significant (p < 0.05) explanatory factors of concerns about falling.
CONCLUSIONS: Several factors significantly explained concerns about falling in
people with PD. Walking difficulties was by far the strongest explanatory factor.
This suggests that minimizing walking difficulties should be a primary target
when aiming at reducing concerns about falling in people with PD.

PMID: 25870024  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


157. Rheumatol Int. 2015 Apr 14. [Epub ahead of print]

How is the experience of pain measured in older, community-dwelling people with
osteoarthritis? A systematic review of the literature.

de Luca K(1), Parkinson L, Pollard H, Byles J, Blyth F.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Gender Health and Ageing, University of Newcastle, 18 Palm
Court South West Rocks, Callaghan, NSW, 2431, Australia, chirokatie@live.com.au.

The objective of the study was to perform a systematic review to identify and
appraise outcome measures and measures of pain that are used to assess the
experience of pain by older people with osteoarthritis, and to assess whether
these measures are effective at capturing the multidimensional nature of the
experience of this pain. A systematic review of five electronic databases from
January 1996 to March 2013 was done. Inclusion criteria were cohort/observational
and cross-sectional studies; specific diagnosis of OA; employed outcome measures 
of pain and/or health and/or quality of life which included questions about pain;
and considered older adults. Articles were reviewed for methodological quality
using the Effective Public Health Practice Project Quality Assessment Tool for
Quantitative Studies. A total of 14 publications met the inclusion criteria, and 
11 discrete studies were included in the review. The studies used 21 different
outcome measures, utilizing 13 measures of pain. Sensory, affective and cognitive
dimensions of pain were captured by the measures, albeit studies predominantly
measured intensity or severity alone. Measures of pain used in epidemiological
studies do not adequately capture the multidimensional nature of the experience
of pain in osteoarthritis. There is a fraught complexity in the
multidimensionality of the experience of pain in osteoarthritis, and studies
exploring osteoarthritis pain in older people should attempt to capture this
multidimensionality by employing multiple valid and reliable outcome measures
that capture specific dimensions of the pain experience.

PMID: 25869349  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


158. J Neurol Sci. 2015 May 15;352(1-2):84-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.03.041. Epub
2015 Apr 7.

Neurofilament light chain level in cerebrospinal fluid can differentiate
Parkinson's disease from atypical parkinsonism: Evidence from a meta-analysis.

Sako W(1), Murakami N(2), Izumi Y(2), Kaji R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Health Biosciences,
Tokushima University Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan. Electronic address:
dwsako@yahoo.co.jp. (2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Health
Biosciences, Tokushima University Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan.

A reliable test that facilitates the accurate diagnosis of Parkinson's and
disorders will help with both, clinical management and therapeutic research. In
this context, neurofilament light chain (NFL) is candidate for a biomarker in
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A comprehensive literature search yielded 4 eligible
studies. We expressed between-group difference of NFL concentration in CSF as the
standardized mean difference. Four studies involved 166 Parkinson's disease (PD),
116 multiple system atrophy (MSA) and 73 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)
patients. Patients with MSA showed higher concentration of NFL concentration in
CSF than those with PD (standardized mean difference=1.60, P<0.0001). These
studies were homogeneous (P=0.17). NFL in CSF in PSP was significantly elevated
relative to PD with homogeneous studies (standardized mean difference=2.04,
P<0.0001; P=0.99). The present meta-analysis suggested that NFL concentration in 
CSF in MSA and PSP was significantly increased relative to PD, and that this
could help us to separate PD from atypical parkinsonian syndromes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25868897  [PubMed - in process]


159. J Dent. 2015 Apr 11. pii: S0300-5712(15)00085-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jdent.2015.04.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical enamel surface changes following an intra-oral acidic challenge.

Seong J(1), Virani A(1), Parkinson C(2), Claydon N(1), Hellin N(1), Newcombe
RG(3), West N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Periodontology, Clinical Trials Unit, Bristol Dental School, Bristol, UK.
(2)Oral Care Medical Affairs Consumer Healthcare R&D, GlaxoSmithKine, Weybridge, 
UK. (3)Institute of Primary Care and Public Health, Cardiff University, Cardiff, 
UK. (4)Periodontology, Clinical Trials Unit, Bristol Dental School, Bristol, UK. 
Electronic address: n.x.west@bristol.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVES: Investigation of early enamel erosion using replica impressions to
compare changes in enamel surface topography in vivo prior to and over a 24h
period following acid challenge.
METHOD: A single treatment, blinded, enamel replica clinical study was undertaken
in 20 healthy subjects. Replica tooth impressions were taken at baseline,
following acid challenge and 2, 4, 7 and 24h post challenge. Subjects consumed
500ml of acidic soft drink over 30min. Scanning electron microscopy of surface
tomography was characterised with a descriptive 5 point scale by four judges.
Duplicate impressions were taken to assess reproducibility.
RESULTS: 18 subjects had scorable sequences. Descriptive analyses showed erosive 
changes following acid consumption and reparative changes in the subsequent 24h
period. Comparing baseline replica to the 24h replica, there were no significant 
differences (p=0.26) in tooth surface characteristics. Comparing the replica
taken immediately following acidic challenge with the subsequent replicas at 2,
4, 7 and 24h, showed clear reduction of erosive effects on the enamel surface at 
2h (p=0.02) and a highly significant reduction at 4, 7 and 24h (p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: This methodology demonstrated the ability to follow the progression
and recovery of early erosive enamel lesions over 24h being accurate and
reproducible. This study suggests enamel repair commences within 2h following a
substantial acidic challenge and is completed 4-24h later. After 24h, the tooth
surface appeared visibly indistinguishable from the original tooth surface,
suggestive of a recovery process occurring.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Healthy erosive lifestyles often culminate in tooth wear. 
The time taken for enamel remineralisation following acidic challenge is unknown 
however, this study suggests the repair process is relatively slow following a
substantial acidic challenge, and at least 4-24h should elapse prior to further
acidic consumption to allow for recovery.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25868879  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


160. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Apr 13. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4563. [Epub ahead of
print]

Rapid Eye Movement Sleep Behavior Disorder and Neurodegenerative Disease.

Howell MJ(1), Schenck CH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. (2)Department
of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

Importance: The dream enactment of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder
(RBD) is often the first indication of an impending α-synuclein disorder, such as
Parkinson disease, multiple-system atrophy, or dementia with Lewy bodies.
Objective: To provide an overview of RBD from the onset of dream enactment
through the emergence of a parkinsonian disorder.
Evidence Review: Peer-reviewed articles, including case reports, case series,
retrospective reviews, prospective randomized trials, and basic science
investigations, were identified in a PubMed search of articles on RBD from
January 1, 1986, through July 31, 2014.
Findings: Under normal conditions, vivid dream mentation combined with skeletal
muscle paralysis characterizes rapid eye movement sleep. In RBD, α-synuclein
abnormalities in the brainstem disinhibit rapid eye movement sleep motor
activity, leading to dream enactment. The behaviors of RBD are often theatrical, 
with complexity, aggression, and violence; fighting and fleeing actions can be
injurious to patients as well as bed partners. Rapid eye movement sleep behavior 
disorder is distinguished from other parasomnias by clinical features and the
demonstration of rapid eye movement sleep without atonia on polysomnography.
Consistent with early neurodegeneration, patients with RBD demonstrate subtle
motor, cognitive, and autonomic impairments. Approximately 50% of patients with
spontaneous RBD will convert to a parkinsonian disorder within a decade.
Ultimately, nearly all (81%-90%) patients with RBD develop a neurodegenerative
disorder. Among patients with Parkinson disease, RBD predicts a
non-tremor-predominant subtype, gait freezing, and an aggressive clinical course.
The most commonly cited RBD treatments include low-dose clonazepam or high-dose
melatonin taken orally at bedtime.
Conclusions and Relevance: Treatment of RBD can prevent injury to patients and
bed partners. Because RBD is a prodromal syndrome of Parkinson disease (or
related disorder), it represents a unique opportunity for developing and testing 
disease-modifying therapies.

PMID: 25867792  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


161. Cancer Sci. 2015 Apr 13. doi: 10.1111/cas.12673. [Epub ahead of print]

High levels of DJ-1 protein and isoelectric point 6.3 isoform in sera of breast
cancer patients.

Kawate T(1), Iwaya K, Koshikawa K, Moriya T, Yamasaki T, Hasegawa S, Kaise H,
Fujita T, Matsuo H, Nakamura T, Ishikawa T, Hiroi S, Iguchi-Ariga SM, Ariga H,
Murota K, Fujimori M, Yamamoto J, Matsubara O, Kohno N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Defense Medical College, Saitama, Japan;
Department of Breast Oncology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.

In patients with cancer and Parkinson's disease, the DJ-1 protein may be secreted
into the serum during the impaired response of the underlying cell-protective
mechanisms. In order to determine the clinical significance of DJ-1 protein in
the sera of breast cancer patients, we examined blood samples from a breast
cancer group (n = 180) and a non-cancerous control group (n = 300). Higher levels
of DJ-1 were detected in the breast cancer group (mean level, 42.7 ng/mL) than
the control group (28.3 ng/mL) by ELISA (P = 0.019). Higher DJ-1 levels were
significantly associated with advanced clinical grade, according to the TNM
classification, negative hormone receptor status, and high Ki-67 labeling index, 
of biopsied materials; samples showed low DJ-1 protein expression despite
upregulated DJ-1 mRNA. DJ-1 isoforms could be detected clearly in 17 blood
samples (from 11 breast cancer patients, and 6 non-cancerous controls) by 2-D gel
electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis. The isoform at the pI of 6.3 showed the 
highest intensity in all 11 cancer cases. Conversely, in the 6 non-cancerous
cases, isoforms other than the pI 6.3 isoform were highly expressed, and there
was a significant difference in the isoform pattern between breast cancer cases
and controls (P = 0.00025). These data indicate that high levels of DJ-1,
probably of isoform at pI 6.3, is a candidate serum marker of breast cancer.

© 2015 The Authors. Cancer Science published by Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on 
behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

PMID: 25867058  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


162. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:125273. Epub 2015 Mar 19.

Parkinsonism in Spinocerebellar Ataxia.

Park H(1), Kim HJ(1), Jeon BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology and Movement Disorder Center, College of Medicine,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National University, Seoul 110-744,
Republic of Korea.

Spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) presents heterogeneous clinical phenotypes, and
parkinsonism is reported in diverse SCA subtypes. Both levodopa responsive
Parkinson disease (PD) like phenotype and atypical parkinsonism have been
described especially in SCA2, SCA3, and SCA17 with geographic differences in
prevalence. SCA2 is the most frequently reported subtype of SCA related to
parkinsonism worldwide. Parkinsonism in SCA2 has unique genetic characteristics, 
such as low number of expansions and interrupted structures, which may explain
the sporadic cases with low penetrance. Parkinsonism in SCA17 is more remarkable 
in Asian populations especially in Korea. In addition, an unclear cutoff of the
pathologic range is the key issue in SCA17 related parkinsonism. SCA3 is more
common in western cohorts. SCA6 and SCA8 have also been reported with a PD-like
phenotype. Herein, we reviewed the epidemiologic, clinical, genetic, and
pathologic features of parkinsonism in SCAs.

PMCID: PMC4383270
PMID: 25866756  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


163. J Neurochem. 2015 Apr 11. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13125. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist Propranolol on dyskinesia and 
L-DOPA-induced striatal DA efflux in the hemi-parkinsonian rat.

Bhide N(1), Lindenbach D, Barnum CJ, George JA, Surrena MA, Bishop C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience Program, Binghamton
University, Binghamton, New York, USA.

Dopamine (DA) replacement therapy with L-DOPA continues to be the primary
treatment of Parkinson's disease; however, long-term therapy is accompanied by
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID). Several experimental and clinical studies have 
established that Propranolol, a β-adrenergic receptor antagonist, reduces LID
without affecting L-DOPA's efficacy. However, the exact mechanisms underlying
these effects remain to be elucidated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
anti-dyskinetic profile of Propranolol against a panel of DA replacement
strategies, as well as elucidate the underlying neurochemical mechanisms. Results
indicated that Propranolol, in a dose-dependent manner, reduced LID, without
affecting motor performance. Propranolol failed to alter dyskinesia produced by
the D1 receptor agonist, SKF81297 (0.08 mg/kg, sc), or the D2 receptor agonist,
Quinpirole (0.05 mg/kg, sc). These findings suggested a pre-synaptic mechanism
for Propranolol's anti-dyskinetic effects, possibly through modulating
L-DOPA-mediated DA efflux. To evaluate this possibility, microdialysis studies
were carried out in the DA-lesioned striatum of dyskinetic rats and results
indicated that co-administration of Propranolol (20 mg/kg, ip) was able to
attenuate L-DOPA- (6 mg/kg, sc) induced DA efflux. Therefore, Propranolol's
anti-dyskinetic properties appear to be mediated via attenuation of
L-DOPA-induced extraphysiological efflux of DA. We investigated the ability of
the beta-adrenergic receptor (βAR) antagonist Propranolol to reduce drug-induced 
dyskinesia in hemi-parkinsonian rats. Dyskinesia induced by
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), but not D1 or D2 agonists was reduced by
Propranolol. In vivo striatal microdialysis revealed that Propranolol's
anti-dyskinetic effects were related to an attenuation of L-DOPA-induced dopamine
(DA) efflux. These findings show that pre-synaptic βAR mediate L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia (LID) and highlight Propranolol's therapeutic potential.

© 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMID: 25866285  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


164. Neurochem Int. 2015 Apr 9. pii: S0197-0186(15)00050-9. doi:
10.1016/j.neuint.2015.03.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Linking a compound-heterozygous Parkin mutant (Q311R and A371T) to Parkinson's
disease by using proteomic and molecular approaches.

Ozgul S(1), Kasap M(2), Akpinar G(3), Kanli A(3), Güzel N(3), Karaosmanoglu K(4),
Baykal AT(5), Iseri P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Kocaeli University School of Medicine, 41380
Kocaeli, Turkey. (2)Department of Medical Biology, Kocaeli University School of
Medicine, 41380 Kocaeli, Turkey; DEKART Proteomics Laboratory, Kocaeli University
School of Medicine, 41380 Kocaeli, Turkey. Electronic address:
mkasap2008@gmail.com. (3)Department of Medical Biology, Kocaeli University School
of Medicine, 41380 Kocaeli, Turkey; DEKART Proteomics Laboratory, Kocaeli
University School of Medicine, 41380 Kocaeli, Turkey. (4)DEKART Proteomics
Laboratory, Kocaeli University School of Medicine, 41380 Kocaeli, Turkey;
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Kocaeli University School of Technology,
41380 Kocaeli, Turkey. (5)TUBITAK Marmara Research Center, Genetic Engineering
and Biotechnology Institute (GEBI), Gebze, 41470 Kocaeli, Turkey. (6)Department
of Neurology, Kocaeli University School of Medicine, 41380 Kocaeli, Turkey.

Parkin is an E3-protein ubiquitin ligase, which plays an important role as a
scavenger in cell metabolism. Since the discovery of the link between Parkin and 
Parkinson's disease, Parkin was placed in the center of Parkinson's disease
research. Previously, we isolated a mutant form of the Parkin protein (Q311R and 
A371T) from a Parkinson's disease patient. In this study, we aimed at
characterizing this mutant Parkin protein by using biochemical and proteomic
approaches. We used neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y) as our model and created two
inducible cell lines that expressed the wild type and the mutant Parkin proteins.
We first investigated the effect of expressing both the wild type and the mutant 
Parkin proteins on the overall proteome by using 2D-DIGE approach. The
experiments yielded the identification of 22 differentially regulated proteins,
of which 13 were regulated in the mutant Parkin expressing cells. Classification 
of the identified proteins based on biological process and molecular function
revealed that the majority of the regulated proteins belonged to protein folding 
and energy metabolism. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis predicted the presence of a
link between the regulated proteins of the mutant Parkin expressing cells and
Parkinson's disease. We also performed biochemical characterization studies on
the wild type and the mutant Parkin proteins to make sense out of the differences
observed at the proteome level. Both proteins displayed biological activity, had 
similar stabilities and localized similarly to the cytoplasm and the nucleus in
SH-SY5Y cells. The mutant protein, however, was cut by a protease and subjected
to a post-translational modification. The observed differences at the proteome
level might be due to the differences in processing of the mutant Parkin protein.
Overall, we were able to create a possible link between a pair of Parkin
mutations to its pertinent disease by using 2D-DIGE in combination with
biochemical and molecular approaches.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25865804  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


165. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 31. pii: S1353-8020(15)00123-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Pareidolia in Parkinson's disease without dementia: A positron emission
tomography study.

Uchiyama M(1), Nishio Y(2), Yokoi K(3), Hosokai Y(4), Takeda A(5), Mori E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral Neurology and Cognitive Neuroscience, Tohoku
University School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan; Department of Speech, Language and 
Hearing Sciences, Niigata University of Health and Welfare, Niigata, Japan.
(2)Department of Behavioral Neurology and Cognitive Neuroscience, Tohoku
University School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. Electronic address:
nishiou@med.tohoku.ac.jp. (3)Department of Behavioral Neurology and Cognitive
Neuroscience, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. (4)Department 
of Diagnostic Image Analysis, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai,
Japan. (5)Department of Neurology, Sendai Nishitaga National Hospital, Sendai,
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Pareidolia, which is a particular type of complex visual illusion,
has been reported to be a phenomenon analogous to visual hallucinations in
patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. However, whether pareidolia is observed 
in Parkinson's disease (PD) or whether there are common underlying mechanisms of 
these two types of visual misperceptions remains to be elucidated.
METHODS: A test to evoke pareidolia, the Pareidolia test, was administered to 53 
patients with PD without dementia and 24 healthy controls. The regional cerebral 
metabolic rate of glucose was measured using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron
emission tomography in the PD patients.
RESULTS: PD patients without dementia produced a greater number of pareidolic
illusions compared with the controls. Pareidolia was observed in all of the
patients having visual hallucinations as well as a subset of those without visual
hallucinations. The number of pareidolic illusions was correlated with
hypometabolism in the bilateral temporal, parietal and occipital cortices. The
index of visual hallucinations was correlated with hypometabolism in the left
parietal cortex. A region associated with both pareidolia and visual
hallucinations was found in the left parietal lobe.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that PD patients without dementia experience
pareidolia more frequently than healthy controls and that posterior cortical
dysfunction could be a common neural mechanism of pareidolia and visual
hallucinations. Pareidolia could represent subclinical hallucinations or a
predisposition to visual hallucinations in Lewy body disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25864093  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


166. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Mar 5. pii: S0197-4580(15)00129-3. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.02.018. [Epub ahead of print]

The loss of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) during normal aging or from
siRNA knockdown augments human alpha-synuclein (α-syn) toxicity to rat nigral
neurons.

Salganik M(1), Sergeyev VG(2), Shinde V(3), Meyers CA(4), Gorbatyuk MS(3), Lin
JH(5), Zolotukhin S(6), Gorbatyuk OS(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, College of Medicine,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; The Powell Gene Therapy Center,
College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Gene Therapy
Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Vision Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, AL, USA; Department of Biology, Udmurt State University, Izhevsk,
Russia. (3)Department of Vision Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, AL, USA. (4)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology,
College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. (5)Department
of Pathology, University of California, La Jolla, CA, USA. (6)The Powell Gene
Therapy Center, College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA;
Department of Pediatrics, University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville,
FL, USA. (7)Department of Vision Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, AL, USA; Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegeneration and
Experimental Therapy, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
Electronic address: oleggor@uab.edu.

Age-related structural changes and gradual loss of key enzymes significantly
affect the ability of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to facilitate proper protein
folding and maintain homeostasis. In this work, we present several lines of
evidence supporting the hypothesis that the age-related decline in expression of 
the ER chaperone glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) could be related to the
development of Parkinson's disease. We first determined that old (24 months) rats
exhibit significantly lower levels of GRP78 protein in the nigrostriatal system
as compared with young (2 months) animals. Then using recombinant adeno-associate
virus-mediated gene transfer, we found that GRP78 downregulation by specific
small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) aggravates alpha-synuclein (α-syn) neurotoxicity 
in nigral dopamine (DA) neurons. Moreover, the degree of chaperone decline
corresponds with the severity of neurodegeneration. Additionally, comparative
analysis of nigral tissues obtained from old and young rats revealed that aging
affects the capacity of nigral DA cells to upregulate endogenous GRP78 protein in
response to human α-syn neurotoxicity. Finally, we demonstrated that a sustained 
increase of GRP78 protein over the course of 9 months protected aging nigral DA
neurons in the α-syn-induced rat model of Parkinson's-like neurodegeneration. Our
data indicate that the ER chaperone GRP78 may have therapeutic potential for
preventing and/or slowing age-related neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25863526  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


167. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2015 Apr 9. pii:
S0278-5846(15)00066-4. doi: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2015.03.017. [Epub ahead of print]

Potential of the cannabinoid CB2 receptor as a pharmacological target against
inflammation in Parkinson's disease.

Gómez-Gálvez Y(1), Palomo-Garo C(1), Fernández-Ruiz J(2), García C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Neuroquímica, Departamento de
Bioquímica y Biología Molecular III, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad
Complutense, Madrid, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain; Instituto Ramón y
Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain. (2)Instituto
Universitario de Investigación en Neuroquímica, Departamento de Bioquímica y
Biología Molecular III, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Complutense, Madrid,
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain; Instituto Ramón y Cajal de
Investigación Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
jjfr@med.ucm.es. (3)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Neuroquímica,
Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular III, Facultad de Medicina,
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red 
sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain; Instituto Ramón 
y Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
conchig@med.ucm.es.

Inflammation is an important pathogenic factor in Parkinson's disease (PD), so
that it can contribute to kill dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and
to enhance the dopaminergic denervation of the striatum. The cannabinoid type-2
(CB2) receptor has been investigated as a potential anti-inflammatory and
neuroprotective target in different neurodegenerative disorders, but still
limited evidence has been collected in PD. Here, we show for the first time that 
CB2 receptors are elevated in microglial cells recruited and activated at
lesioned sites in the substantia nigra of PD patients compared to control
subjects. Parkinsonian inflammation can be reproduced experimentally in rodents
by intrastriatal injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) which, through an intense
activation of glial elements and peripheral infiltration, provokes a rapid
deterioration of the striatum that may extend to the substantia nigra too. Using 
this experimental model, we recently described a much more intense deterioration 
of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-containing nigral neurons in CB2 receptor-deficient 
mice compared to wild-type animals, supporting a potential neuroprotective role
for this receptor. In the present study, we further explored this issue. First,
we found elevated levels of the CB2 receptor measured by qRT-PCR in the striatum 
and substantia nigra of LPS-lesioned mice, as well as an increase in the
immunostaining for this receptor in the LPS-lesioned striatum. Second, we found a
significant increase in CD68 immunostaining, which serve to identify activated
microglia and also infiltrated peripheral macrophages, in these brain structures 
in response to LPS insult, which was much more intense in CB2 receptor-deficient 
mice in the case of the substantia nigra. Next, we observed that the activation
of CB2 receptors with a selective agonist (HU-308) reversed LPS-induced elevation
of CD68 immunostaining in the striatum and the parallel reduction in TH
immunostaining. Lastly, we found that LPS elevated the gene expression of
different pro-inflammatory mediators in both the striatum and the substantia
nigra, whereas the selective activation of CB2 receptors reduced a part of these 
mediators, e.g. inducible nitric oxide synthase, although exclusively in the
striatum. In conclusion, we have provided the first evidence on the up-regulation
of CB2 receptors in glial elements in postmortem tissues of PD patients, which
has been confirmed in an inflammatory model of this disease. In addition, we have
provided evidence on the benefits derived from their activation in relation with 
the activation of microglial cells, the infiltration of macrophages and also
certain capability of these cells to generate proinflammatory factors.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25863279  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


168. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Apr 9;95:290-298. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.03.031. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Serotonin6 receptors in the dorsal hippocampus regulate depressive-like behaviors
in unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned Parkinson's rats.

Liu KC(1), Li JY(1), Tan HH(2), Du CX(2), Xie W(3), Zhang YM(3), Ma WL(1), Zhang 
L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, School of Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an 710061, China. (2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, the
Second Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710004, China. (3)Department of
Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong University,
Xi'an 710061, China. (4)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of
Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, China. Electronic address:
zhangli1998@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

Preclinical studies indicate both activation and blockade of serotonin6 (5-HT6)
receptors may produce antidepressant-like effects. Depression is a common symptom
in Parkinson's disease (PD); however, its pathophysiology is unclear. Here we
examined whether 5-HT6 receptors in the dorsal hippocampus (DH) involve in the
regulation of PD-associated depression. Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of
the medial forebrain bundle in rats induced depressive-like responses as measured
by the sucrose preference and forced swim tests when compared to sham-operated
rats. In sham-operated rats, intra-DH injection of 5HT6 receptor agonist
WAY208466 or antagonist SB258585 increased sucrose consumption and decreased
immobility time, indicating the induction of antidepressant effects. In the
lesioned rats, WAY208466 also produced antidepressant effects, whereas SB258585
decreased sucrose consumption and increased immobility time, indicating the
induction of depressive-like behaviors. Neurochemical results showed that
WAY208466 did not change dopamine (DA) levels in the medial prefrontal cortex
(mPFC), DH and habenula, and noradrenaline (NA) levels in the DH and habenula in 
sham-operated rats, and SB258585 increased DA and NA levels in these structures. 
Further, WAY208466 increased DA levels in the mPFC, DH and habenula, and NA level
in the habenula in the lesioned rats, and SB258585 decreased DA levels in the
mPFC and habenula. Additionally, the lesion did not change the density of
neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1/5-HT6 receptor co-expressing neurons in the 
DH. Compared to sham-operated rats, these findings suggest that the effects of
5-HT6 receptors in PD-associated depression may be mediated through different
neurochemical mechanisms, and the DH is an important site involved in these
effects.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25863121  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


169. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Apr 9;288:103-106. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.04.001. [Epub
ahead of print]

Adenosine A2A receptor-mediated control of pilocarpine-induced tremulous jaw
movements is Parkinson's disease-associated GPR37 receptor-dependent.

Gandía J(1), Morató X(1), Stagljar I(2), Fernández-Dueñas V(3), Ciruela F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Unitat de Farmacologia, Departament de Patologia i Terapèutica Experimental,
Facultat de Medicina, IDIBELL, Universitat de Barcelona, L'Hospitalet de
Llobregat, 08907 Barcelona, Spain. (2)Department of Biochemistry, Donnelly
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Molecular 
Genetics, Donnelly Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Unitat de Farmacologia, Departament de Patologia i Terapèutica Experimental,
Facultat de Medicina, IDIBELL, Universitat de Barcelona, L'Hospitalet de
Llobregat, 08907 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: vfernandez@ub.edu.
(4)Unitat de Farmacologia, Departament de Patologia i Terapèutica Experimental,
Facultat de Medicina, IDIBELL, Universitat de Barcelona, L'Hospitalet de
Llobregat, 08907 Barcelona, Spain; Department of Physiology, Faculty of Sciences,
University of Ghent, 9000 Gent, Belgium. Electronic address: fciruela@ub.edu.

GPR37, also known as parkin associated endothelin-like receptor (Pael-R), is an
orphan GPCR that aggregates intracellularly in a juvenile form of Parkinson's
disease. However, little is known about the function of this orphan receptor.
Here, using a model for parkisonian tremor, the pilocarpine-induced tremulous jaw
movements (TJMs), we show that the deletion of GPR37 attenuated the TJMs in
response to this cholinomimetic. Interestingly, the control that adenosine A2A
receptor exerted over TJMs was lost in the absence of GPR37, thus pointing to a
pivotal role of this orphan receptor in the adenosinergic control of parkinsonian
tremor.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25862943  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


170. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Apr 8;79:1-13. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.02.032. [Epub ahead of
print]

Increased 14-3-3 phosphorylation observed in Parkinson's disease reduces
neuroprotective potential of 14-3-3 proteins.

Slone SR(1), Lavalley N(1), McFerrin M(1), Wang B(1), Yacoubian TA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental Therapeutics, Department of
Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA. (2)Center
for Neurodegeneration and Experimental Therapeutics, Department of Neurology,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA. Electronic address:
tyacoub@uab.edu.

14-3-3 proteins are key regulators of cell survival. We have previously
demonstrated that 14-3-3 levels are decreased in an alpha-synuclein (αsyn) mouse 
model of Parkinson's disease (PD), and that overexpression of certain 14-3-3
isoforms is protective in several PD models. Here we examine whether changes in
14-3-3 phosphorylation may contribute to the neurodegenerative process in PD. We 
examine three key 14-3-3 phosphorylation sites that normally regulate 14-3-3
function, including serine 58 (S58), serine 184 (S184), and serine/threonine 232 
(S/T232), in several models of PD and in human PD brain. We observed that an
increase in S232 phosphorylation is observed in rotenone-treated neuroblastoma
cells, in cells overexpressing αsyn, and in human PD brains. Alterations in S58
phosphorylation were less consistent in these models, and we did not observe any 
phosphorylation changes at S184. Phosphorylation at S232 induced by rotenone is
reduced by casein kinase inhibitors, and is not dependent on αsyn. Mutation of
the S232 site affected 14-3-3θ's neuroprotective effects against rotenone and
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), with the S232D mutant lacking any
protective effect compared to wildtype or S232A 14-3-3θ. The S232D mutant
partially reduced the ability of 14-3-3θ to inhibit Bax activation in response to
rotenone. Based on these findings, we propose that phosphorylation of 14-3-3s at 
serine 232 contributes to the neurodegenerative process in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25862939  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


171. Pract Neurol. 2015 Apr 10. pii: practneurol-2015-001107. doi:
10.1136/practneurol-2015-001107. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkinson's disease and the skin.

Gregory R(1), Miller S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Poole, UK.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Poole, UK.

The concept that the skin is a mirror of Parkinson's disease dates to the start
of the last century. Despite dermatological disorders being recognised as a
common non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease, they are often overlooked. This 
article reviews the various skin disorders seen in Parkinson's disease and
addresses the other dermatological questions that are frequently raised by those 
attending Parkinson's disease clinics.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25862733  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


172. J Biol Chem. 2015 Apr 10. pii: jbc.M114.634063. [Epub ahead of print]

Convergence of parkin, PINK1 and α-synuclein on stress-induced mitochondrial
morphological remodelling.

Norris KL(1), Hao R(1), Chen LF(2), Lai CH(1), Kapur M(1), Shaughnessy PJ(1),
Chou D(1), Yan J(1), Taylor JP(3), Engelender S(4), West AE(2), Lim KL(5), Yao
TP(6).

Author information: 
(1)Duke University, United States; (2)Duke University Medical Center, United
States; (3)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, United States;
(4)Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Israel; (5)National University of
Singapore, Singapore. (6)Duke University, United States; tsopang.yao@dm.duke.edu.

Mutations in parkin (PARK2), an ubiquitin ligase, cause early onset Parkinson's
disease. Parkin was shown to bind, ubiquitinate, and target depolarized
mitochondria for destruction by autophagy. This process, mitophagy, is considered
crucial for maintaining mitochondrial integrity and suppressing Parkinsonism.
Here, we report that under moderate mitochondrial stress, parkin does not
translocate to mitochondria to induce mitophagy; rather, it stimulates
mitochondrial connectivity. Mitochondrial stress-induced fusion requires PINK1
(PARK6), mitofusins and parkin ubiquitin ligase activity. Upon exposure to
mitochondrial toxins, parkin binds α-synuclein (PARK1), and in conjunction with
the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Ubc13, stimulates K63-linked ubiquitination.
Importantly, α-synuclein inactivation phenocopies parkin overexpression and
suppresses stress-induced mitochondria fission, whereas Ubc13 inactivation
abrogates parkin-dependent mitochondrial fusion. The convergence of parkin, PINK1
and α-synuclein on mitochondrial dynamics uncovers a common function of these
PARK genes in the mitochondrial stress response and provides a potential
physiological basis for the prevalence of α-synuclein pathology in Parkinson's
disease.

Copyright © 2015, The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

PMID: 25861987  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


173. EMBO Mol Med. 2015 Apr 10. pii: e201404575. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201404575. [Epub
ahead of print]

Mitochondrial dynamism and heart disease: changing shape and shaping change.

Dorn GW 2nd(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Pharmacogenomics, Department of Internal Medicine, Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA gdorn@dom.wustl.edu.

Mitochondria of adult cardiomyocytes appear hypo-dynamic, lacking interconnected 
reticular networks and the continual fission and fusion observed in many other
cell types. Nevertheless, proteins essential to mitochondrial network remodeling 
are abundant in adult hearts. Recent findings from cardiac-specific ablation of
mitochondrial fission and fusion protein genes have revealed unexpected roles for
mitochondrial dynamics factors in mitophagic mitochondrial quality control. This 
overview examines the clinical and experimental evidence for and against a
meaningful role for the mitochondrial dynamism-quality control interactome in
normal and diseased hearts. Newly discovered functions of mitochondrial dynamics 
factors in maintaining optimal cardiac mitochondrial fitness suggest that deep
interrogation of clinical cardiomyopathy is likely to reveal genetic variants
that cause or modify cardiac disease through their effects on mitochondrial
fission, fusion, and mitophagy.

© 2015 The Author. Published under the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license.

PMID: 25861797  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


174. Gait Posture. 2015 May;41(4):929-34. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2015.03.346. Epub
2015 Apr 3.

Interactive effects of GPI stimulation and levodopa on postural control in
Parkinson's disease.

Johnson L(1), Rodrigues J(2), Teo WP(3), Walters S(2), Stell R(2), Thickbroom
G(2), Mastaglia F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Western Australian Neuroscience Research Institute, Queen Elizabeth II Medical
Centre, Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia; Institute of Sport, Exercise and 
Active Living, Victoria University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; The Florey
Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: liam.johnson@florey.edu.au. (2)Western
Australian Neuroscience Research Institute, Queen Elizabeth II Medical Centre,
Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia. (3)Western Australian Neuroscience
Research Institute, Queen Elizabeth II Medical Centre, Nedlands, Western
Australia, Australia; Centre for Physical Activity and Nutrition Research, Deakin
University, Burwood, Victoria, Australia. (4)Institute of Immunology and
Infectious Diseases, Murdoch University, Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Postural instability is a major source of disability in idiopathic 
Parkinson's disease (IPD). Deep brain stimulation of the globus pallidus internus
(GPI-DBS) improves clinician-rated balance control but there have been few
quantitative studies of its interactive effects with levodopa (L-DOPA). The
purpose of this study was to compare the short-term and interactive effects of
GPI-DBS and L-DOPA on objective measures of postural stability in patients with
longstanding IPD.
METHODS: Static and dynamic posturography during a whole-body leaning task were
performed in 10 IPD patients with bilateral GPI stimulators under the following
conditions: untreated (OFF); L-DOPA alone; DBS alone; DBS+L-DOPA, and in 9
healthy Control subjects. Clinical status was assessed using the UPDRS and AIMS
Dyskinesia Scale.
RESULTS: Static sway was greater in IPD patients in the OFF state compared to the
Control subjects and was further increased by L-DOPA and reduced by GPI-DBS. In
the dynamic task, L-DOPA had a greater effect than GPI-DBS on improving Start
Time, but reduced the spatial accuracy and directional control of the task. When 
the two therapies were combined, GPI-DBS prevented the L-DOPA induced increase in
static sway and improved the accuracy of the dynamic task.
CONCLUSION: The findings demonstrate GPI-DBS and L-DOPA have differential effects
on temporal and spatial aspects of postural control in IPD and that GPI-DBS
counteracts some of the adverse effects of L-DOPA. Further studies on larger
numbers of patients with GPI stimulators are required to confirm these findings
and to clarify the contribution of dyskinesias to impaired dynamic postural
control.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25861706  [PubMed - in process]


175. Behav Neurol. 2015;2015:123636. doi: 10.1155/2015/123636. Epub 2015 Mar 16.

The neural correlates of spatial and object working memory in elderly and
Parkinson's disease subjects.

Caminiti SP(1), Siri C(2), Guidi L(3), Antonini A(4), Perani D(5).

Author information: 
(1)In-Vivo Human Molecular and Structural Neuroimaging Unit, Division of
Neuroscienc San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Via Olgettina 58, 20132 Milan,
Italy. (2)Parkinson Institute, Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Via Bignami
1, 20126 Milan, Italy. (3)IUSS Pavia, Piazza della Vittoria 15, 27100 Pavia,
Italy. (4)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Unit, I.R.C.C.S Hospital San
Camillo, Via Alberoni 70, 30126 Venice, Italy. (5)In-Vivo Human Molecular and
Structural Neuroimaging Unit, Division of Neuroscienc San Raffaele Scientific
Institute, Via Olgettina 58, 20132 Milan, Italy ; Nuclear Medicine Unit, San
Raffaele Hospital, Via Olgettina 60, 20132 Milan, Italy ; Vita-Salute San
Raffaele University, Via Olgettina 58, 20132 Milan, Italy.

This fMRI study deals with the neural correlates of spatial and objects working
memory (SWM and OWM) in elderly subjects (ESs) and idiopathic Parkinson's disease
(IPD). Normal aging and IPD can be associated with a WM decline. In IPD
population, some studies reported similar SWM and OWM deficits; others reported a
greater SWM than OWM impairment. In the present fMRI research, we investigated
whether compensated IPD patients and elderly subjects with comparable performance
during the execution of SWM and OWM tasks would present differences in WM-related
brain activations. We found that the two groups recruited a prevalent left
frontoparietal network when performing the SWM task and a bilateral network
during OWM task execution. More specifically, the ESs showed bilateral frontal
and subcortical activations in SWM, at difference with the IPD patients who
showed a strict left lateralized network, consistent with frontostriatal
degeneration in IPD. The overall brain activation in the IPD group was more
extended as number of voxels with respect to ESs, suggesting underlying
compensatory mechanisms. In conclusion, notwithstanding comparable WM
performance, the two groups showed consistencies and differences in the WM
activated networks. The latter underline the compensatory processes of normal
typical and pathological aging.

PMCID: PMC4378329
PMID: 25861157  [PubMed - in process]


176. Toxicol Rep. 2015;2:504-511.

Prolongation of Chemically-Induced Methemoglobinemia in Mice Lacking α-synuclein:
A Novel Pharmacologic and Toxicologic Phenotype.

Kuo YM(1), Nussbaum RL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco ; Institute for
Human Genetics, University of California San Francisco. (2)Department of
Medicine, University of California San Francisco ; Institute for Human Genetics, 
University of California San Francisco ; Department of Neurology, University of
California San Francisco ; Department of Pathology, University of California San 
Francisco ; Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Francisco.

The protein α -synuclein is considered central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson
disease (PD) on genetic and histopathological grounds. It is widely expressed in 
fetal life and continues to be highly expressed in adult neural tissues, red
blood cells and platelets, while the remainder of adult tissues are reported to
have little or no expression. Despite cellular and molecular evidence for a role 
in neuronal function including synaptic vesicle trafficking, neurotransmitter
release, mitochondrial function, lipid metabolism, neurogenesis, neuroprotection,
and neuromelanin biosynthesis, mice ablated for the gene encoding α -synuclein
(Snca) have little or no neurological phenotype. Thus, nearly 20 years of
intensive study have yet to reveal conclusively what the normal function of this 
highly abundant protein is in the nervous system. Interestingly, α -synuclein has
also been shown to have enzymatic activity as a ferrireductase capable of
reducing Fe(+3) to Fe(+2). Given its abundant expression in red blood cells, we
set out to explore the role of α -synuclein in converting chemically-induced
Fe(+3) methemoglobin to normal Fe(+2) hemoglobin. Initial in vivo experiments
with the potent methemoglobin inducer, para-aminopropiophenone and its active
metabolite, 4-hydroxy para-aminopropiophenone, demonstrated significantly greater
and more prolonged methemoglobinemia in Snca-/- mice compared to Snca+/+ mice. In
vitro experiments with red blood cells, however, and in vivo experiments in
genetically engineered mouse strains that differ in their α -synuclein expression
in various tissues, including the nervous system, red blood cells and liver,
revealed that contrary to the initial hypothesis, a lack of expression of α
-synuclein in red blood cells did not correlate with higher levels or more
prolonged duration of methemoglobinemia. Instead, the greater sensitivity to
chemically induced methemoglobinemia correlated with the absence of hepatic α
-synuclein expression. We have uncovered a new and robust whole-animal phenotype 
in mice lacking α -synuclein that reflects its hitherto unrecognized role in
xenobiotic detoxification.

PMCID: PMC4386288 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 25859428  [PubMed]


177. Phys Ther. 2015 Apr 9. [Epub ahead of print]

Toward Understanding Ambulatory Activity Decline in Parkinson Disease.

Cavanaugh JT(1), Ellis TD(2), Earhart GM(3), Ford MP(4), Foreman KB(5), Dibble
LE(6).

Author information: 
(1)J.T. Cavanaugh, PT, PhD, Department of Physical Therapy, University of New
England, Portland, ME 04103 (USA). (2)T.D. Ellis, PT, PhD, Department of Physical
Therapy and Athletic Training, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. (3)G.M. 
Earhart, PT, PhD, Program in Physical Therapy, Washington University in St
Louis-School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri. (4)M.P. Ford, PT, PhD, Department
of Physical Therapy, Samford University, Birmingham, Alabama. (5)K.B. Foreman,
PT, PhD, Department of Physical Therapy, University of Utah, Salt Lake City,
Utah. (6)L.E. Dibble, PT, PhD, Department of Physical Therapy, University of
Utah.

BACKGROUND: Declining ambulatory activity represents an important facet of
disablement for individuals with Parkinson disease (PD).
OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare the 2-year trajectory of ambulatory activity
decline with concurrently evolving facets of disability in a small cohort of
individuals with PD. Secondarily we sought to identify baseline variables
associated with ambulatory activity at 1- and 2-year follow-up assessments.
DESIGN: Prospective, longitudinal cohort study.
METHODS: Seventeen individuals with PD (Hohen and Yahr Stage 1-3) were recruited 
from two outpatient settings. Ambulatory activity data were collected at
baseline, 1year, and 2-year annual assessments. Motor, mood, activities of daily 
living, balance, gait, upper extremity function, quality of life, self-efficacy, 
and levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) data also were collected.
RESULTS: Participants displayed significant 1- and 2-year declines in the amount 
and intensity of ambulatory activity concurrently with increasing LEDD (P < .01).
Worsening motor symptoms (P < .01) and slowing of gait (P < .01) were apparent
only after 2 years. Concurrent changes in the remaining clinical variables were
not observed. Baseline ambulatory activity and physical performance variables had
the strongest relationships with 1- and 2-year mean daily steps counts (P ≤ .01).
LIMITATIONS: Small, homogenous sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Future research that combines ambulatory activity monitoring with a 
broader and more balanced array of measures would further illuminate the dynamic 
interaction among evolving facets of disablement and help determine the extent to
which sustained patterns of recommended daily physical activity might slow the
rate of disablement in PD.

© 2015 American Physical Therapy Association.

PMID: 25858971  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


178. Int J Yoga Therap. 2014 Sep;24:31-41.

Measuring the effect of an eight-week adaptive yoga program on the physical and
psychological status of individuals with Parkinson's disease. A pilot study.

Boulgarides LK(1), Barakatt E, Coleman-Salgado B.

Author information: 
(1)California State University, Sacramento.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects muscle tone,
strength, flexibility, motor control, psychological outlook, cognition, and
function. Exercise has been found to improve physical ability and psychological
outlook, but the effect of yoga on individuals with PD has not been well
researched. The purposes of this study were to identify outcome measures that
were responsive to change in individuals with PD after an 8-week adaptive yoga
program and to determine appropriate sample sizes for future studies. In a
repeated measures design, 10 participants with a Hoehn and Yahr stage of 2 or 3
were tested prior to and after an 8-week control phase and again after they
underwent an 8-week adaptive yoga program. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) tests
revealed differences in time of measure that approached significance for the
depression subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) (p =
0.008) and the 30-Second Chair Stand (TSCS) (p = 0.013). The interaction between 
time of measure and gender approached significance for the Sit-and-Reach Test
(SRT) (p = 0.08 and 0.03, right and left respectively), with male participants
improving in sit-and-reach flexibility compared with female participants after
intervention. The interaction between time of measure and age approached
significance for the Single-Leg Balance test (SLB) (p = 0.007), with younger
participants improving in SLB time after intervention. Power calculations found
that a sample size ranging from 33 to 153 would be required to achieve
significance at the 0.01 level in the various outcome measures in a future study 
of this design. The depression subscale of the HADS, the TSCS, the SLB, and the
right and left SRT were the measures that changed following the yoga intervention
and are recommended as outcome measures in future studies investigating the
effectiveness of yoga for individuals with PD. This preliminary study supports
further investigation of adaptive yoga using a randomized design and a larger
sample size of individuals with PD.

PMID: 25858649  [PubMed - in process]


179. J Neurochem. 2015 Apr 10. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13116. [Epub ahead of print]

Zonisamide reduces nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration in a mouse
genetic model of Parkinson's disease.

Sano H(1), Murata M, Nambu A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of System Neurophysiology, National Institute for Physiological
Sciences, 38 Nishigonaka, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi, 444-8585, Japan; Department
of Physiological Sciences, SOKENDAI (The Graduate University for Advanced
Studies), 38 Nishigonaka, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi, 444-8585, Japan.

Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and consequent motor dysfunction.
Zonisamide (1,2-benzisoxazole-3-methanesulfonamide), which was originally
developed as an antiepileptic drug, has been found to have therapeutic benefits
for Parkinson's disease. However, the pharmacological mechanisms behind the
beneficial actions of zonisamide in Parkinson's disease are not fully understood.
Here, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of zonisamide on nigrostriatal 
dopaminergic neurons of the Engrailed mutant mouse, a genetic model of
Parkinson's disease. Chronic administration of zonisamide in Engrailed mutant
mice was shown to improve the survival of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons
compared with that under saline treatment. In addition, dopaminergic terminals in
the striatum and the motor function were improved in zonisamide-treated Engrailed
mutant mice to the levels of those in control mice. To clarify the mechanism
behind the neuroprotective effects of zonisamide, the contents of neurotrophic
factors were determined after chronic administration of zonisamide. Brain-derived
neurotrophic factor content was increased in the striatum and ventral midbrain of
the zonisamide-treated mice compared to saline-treated mice. These findings imply
that zonisamide reduces nigrostriatal dopaminergic cell death through
brain-derived neurotrophic factor signaling and may have similar beneficial
effects in human parkinsonian patients as well. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25857446  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


180. J Clin Pharmacol. 2015 Apr 8. doi: 10.1002/jcph.514. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of the Pharmacokinetics of An Oral Extended-Release Capsule
Formulation of Carbidopa-Levodopa (IPX066), with Immediate-Release
Carbidopa-Levodopa (Sinemet®), Sustained-Release Carbidopa-Levodopa (Sinemet®
CR), and Carbidopa-Levodopa-Entacapone (Stalevo®).

Hsu A(1), Yao HM, Gupta S, Modi NB.

Author information: 
(1)IMPAX Specialty Pharma, a division of Impax Laboratories, Inc, 31047 Genstar
Road, Hayward, CA, 94544.

IPX066 (ER CD-LD) is an oral extended-release capsule formulation of carbidopa
(CD) and levodopa (LD). The single-dose pharmacokinetics of ER CD-LD (as 2
capsules, total dose 97.5 mg-390 mg CD-LD) versus immediate-release (IR) CD-LD
(25 mg-100 mg), sustained release (CR) CD-LD (25 mg-100 mg), and CD-LD-entacapone
(25 mg-100 mg-200 mg) was evaluated in healthy subjects. Following IR dosing, LD 
reached peak concentrations (Cmax ) at 1 hour; LD concentrations then decreased
rapidly and were less than 10% of peak by 5 hours. With CR CD-LD and
CD-LD-entacapone, LD Cmax occurred at 1.5 hours and concentrations were less than
10% of peak by 6.3 and 7.5 hours, respectively. The initial increase in LD
concentration was similar between ER CD-LD and IR CD-LD, and faster than for CR
CD-LD and CD-LD-entacapone. LD concentrations from ER CD-LD were sustained for
approximately 5 hours and did not decrease to 10% of peak until 10.1 hours.
Dose-normalized LD Cmax values for ER CD-LD were significantly lower (P <0.05)
than for the other CD-LD products. Bioavailability of LD from ER CD-LD was 83.5%,
78.3%, and 58.8% relative to IR CD-LD, CR CD-LD, and CD-LD-entacapone,
respectively. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25855267  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


181. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 8;35(14):5724-42. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0632-14.2015.

α-Synuclein-Independent Histopathological and Motor Deficits in Mice Lacking the 
Endolysosomal Parkinsonism Protein Atp13a2.

Kett LR(1), Stiller B(2), Bernath MM(3), Tasset I(2), Blesa J(4), Jackson-Lewis
V(4), Chan RB(5), Zhou B(5), Di Paolo G(5), Przedborski S(6), Cuervo AM(2), Dauer
WT(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program, Medical Scientist Training Program, and
Departments of Neurology and. (2)Department of Development and Molecular Biology 
and Institute for Aging Studies, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York 10461, and. (3)Departments of Neurology and. (4)Departments of Neurology and
Center for Motor Neuron Biology and Disease, and. (5)Pathology and Cell Biology, 
Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia 
University, New York, New York 10032. (6)Departments of Neurology and Pathology
and Cell Biology, Center for Motor Neuron Biology and Disease, and.
(7)Neuroscience Graduate Program, Departments of Neurology and Cell and
Developmental Biology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan
48109, dauer@med.umich.edu.

Accumulating evidence from genetic and biochemical studies implicates dysfunction
of the autophagic-lysosomal pathway as a key feature in the pathogenesis of
Parkinson's disease (PD). Most studies have focused on accumulation of neurotoxic
α-synuclein secondary to defects in autophagy as the cause of neurodegeneration, 
but abnormalities of the autophagic-lysosomal system likely mediate toxicity
through multiple mechanisms. To further explore how endolysosomal dysfunction
causes PD-related neurodegeneration, we generated a murine model of Kufor-Rakeb
syndrome (KRS), characterized by early-onset Parkinsonism with additional
neurological features. KRS is caused by recessive loss-of-function mutations in
the ATP13A2 gene encoding the endolysosomal ATPase ATP13A2. We show that loss of 
ATP13A2 causes a specific protein trafficking defect, and that Atp13a2 null mice 
develop age-related motor dysfunction that is preceded by neuropathological
changes, including gliosis, accumulation of ubiquitinated protein aggregates,
lipofuscinosis, and endolysosomal abnormalities. Contrary to predictions from in 
vitro data, in vivo mouse genetic studies demonstrate that these phenotypes are
α-synuclein independent. Our findings indicate that endolysosomal dysfunction and
abnormalities of α-synuclein homeostasis are not synonymous, even in the context 
of an endolysosomal genetic defect linked to Parkinsonism, and highlight the
presence of α-synuclein-independent neurotoxicity consequent to endolysosomal
dysfunction.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/355724-19$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4388928 [Available on 2015-10-08]
PMID: 25855184  [PubMed - in process]


182. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 8. doi: 10.1002/mds.26230. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of the right dorsal anterior insula in the urge to tic in tourette syndrome.

Tinaz S(1), Malone P, Hallett M, Horovitz SG.

Author information: 
(1)Human Motor Control Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

The mid-posterior part of the insula is involved in processing bodily sensations 
and urges and is activated during tic generation in Tourette syndrome. The dorsal
anterior part of the insula, however, integrates sensory and emotional
information with cognitive valuation and is implicated in interoception. The
right dorsal anterior insula also participates in urge suppression in healthy
subjects. This study examined the role of the right dorsal anterior insula in the
urge to tic in Tourette syndrome. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance
imaging was performed in 13 adult Tourette patients and 13 matched controls. The 
role of the right dorsal anterior insula within the urge-tic network was
investigated using graph theory-based neural network analysis. The functional
connectivity of the right dorsal anterior insula was also correlated with urge
and tic severity. Even though the patients did not exhibit any overt tics, the
right dorsal anterior insula demonstrated higher connectivity, especially with
the frontostriatal nodes of the urge-tic network in patients compared with
controls. The functional connectivity between the right dorsal anterior insula
and bilateral supplementary motor area also correlated positively with urge
severity in patients. These results suggest that the right dorsal anterior insula
is part of the urge-tic network and could influence the urge- and tic-related
cortico-striato-thalamic regions even during rest in Tourette syndrome. It might 
be responsible for heightened awareness of bodily sensations generating
premonitory urges in Tourette syndrome. © 2015 International Parkinson and
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25855089  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


183. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Apr 8. [Epub ahead of print]

E-health Support in People with Parkinson's Disease with Smart Glasses: A Survey 
of User Requirements and Expectations in the Netherlands.

Zhao Y(1), Heida T(1), van Wegen EE(2), Bloem BR(3), van Wezel RJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Signal and Systems, MIRA Institute for Biomedical Technology and
Technical Medicine, University of Twente Enschede, Netherlands. (2)Department of 
Rehabilitation Medicine, MOVE Research Institute Amsterdam, VU University Medical
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Neurology, Radboud
University Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (4)Biomedical
Signal and Systems, MIRA Institute for Biomedical Technology and Technical
Medicine, University of Twente Enschede, Netherlands Biophysics, Donders
Institute of Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen,
Nijmegen, Netherlands.

Recent advances in smart glasses, wearable computers in the form of glasses,
bring new therapeutic and monitoring possibilities for people with Parkinson's
disease (PD). For example, it can provide visual and auditory cues during
activities of daily living that have long been used to improve gait disturbances.
Furthermore, smart glasses can personalize therapies based on the state of the
user and/or the user environment in real-time using object recognition and motion
tracking. To provide guidelines for developers in creating new PD applications
for smart glasses, a self-reported questionnaire was designed to survey the
requirements, constraints, and attitudes of people with PD with respect to this
new technology. The survey was advertised online over an 11 month period on the
website of the Parkinson Vereninging. The results were derived from 62
participants (54.8% men and 45.2% women, average age of 65.7 ± 9.1), representing
a response rate of 79.5%. The participants were overall very enthusiastic about
smart glasses as an assistive technology to facilitate daily living activities,
especially its potential to self-manage motor problems and provide navigational
guidance, thereby restoring their confidence and independence. The reported level
of usage of mobile technologies like tablets and smartphones suggests that smart 
glasses could be adopted relatively easily, especially by younger people with PD.
However, the respondents were concerned about the cost, appearance, efficacy, and
potential side effects of smart glasses. To accommodate a wide range of symptoms,
personal preferences, and comfort level with technology, smart glasses should be 
designed to allow simple operation and personalization.

PMID: 25855044  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


184. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 8. doi: 10.1002/mds.26220. [Epub ahead of print]

Minimal change multiple system atrophy: An aggressive variant?

Ling H(1), Asi YT, Petrovic IN, Ahmed Z, Prashanth LK, Hazrati LN, Nishizawa M,
Ozawa T, Lang A, Lees AJ, Revesz T, Holton JL.

Author information: 
(1)Queen Square Brain Bank, Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute
of Neurology, UK; Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, UCL
Institute of Neurology, London, UK.

Glial cytoplasmic inclusions containing α-synuclein are the pathological hallmark
of multiple system atrophy (MSA). Minimal change (MC-MSA) is an unusual MSA
subtype with neuronal loss largely restricted to the substantia nigra and locus
coeruleus. Immunohistochemistry on selected brain regions and semiquantitative
assessment were performed on six MC-MSA and eight MSA control cases. More
neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions were seen in the caudate and substantia nigra in 
MC-MSA than in MSA controls (P = 0.002), without any statistical difference in
glial cytoplasmic inclusion load in any region. Severe glial cytoplasmic
inclusion load was found in the ventrolateral medulla (P = 1.0) and nucleus raphe
obscurus (P = 0.4) in both groups. When compared with MSA controls, the three
MC-MSA cases who had died of sudden unexpected death had an earlier age of onset 
(mean: 38 vs. 57.6 y, P = 0.02), a numerically shorter disease duration (mean:
5.3 vs. 8 y, P = 0.2) and a more rapid clinical progression with most of the
clinical milestones reached within 3 y of presentation, suggesting an aggressive 
variant of MSA. Another three MC-MSA cases, who had died of unrelated concurrent 
diseases, had an age of onset (mean: 57.7 y) and temporal course similar to
controls, had less severe neuronal loss and gliosis in the medial and
dorsolateral substantia nigra subregions (P < 0.05) than in MSA controls, and
could be considered as a unique group with interrupted pathological progression. 
Significant respiratory dysfunction and early orthostatic hypotension were
observed in all MC-MSA cases. Our findings could suggest that
α-synuclein-associated oligodendroglial pathology may lead to neuronal
dysfunction sufficient to cause clinical symptoms before overt neuronal loss in
MSA. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25854893  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


185. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 8. doi: 10.1002/mds.26217. [Epub ahead of print]

Economic evaluation of occupational therapy in Parkinson's disease: A randomized 
controlled trial.

Sturkenboom IH(1), Hendriks JC, Graff MJ, Adang EM, Munneke M, Nijhuis-van der
Sanden MW, Bloem BR.

Author information: 
(1)Radboud university medical center, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences,
Department of Rehabilitation, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

A large randomized clinical trial (the Occupational Therapy in Parkinson's
Disease [OTiP] study) recently demonstrated that home-based occupational therapy 
improves perceived performance in daily activities of people with Parkinson's
disease (PD). The aim of the current study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness
of this intervention. We performed an economic evaluation over a 6-month period
for both arms of the OTiP study. Participants were 191 community-dwelling PD
patients and 180 primary caregivers. The intervention group (n = 124 patients)
received 10 weeks of home-based occupational therapy; the control group (n = 67
patients) received usual care (no occupational therapy). Costs were assessed from
a societal perspective including healthcare use, absence from work, informal
care, and intervention costs. Health utilities were evaluated using EuroQol-5d.
We estimated cost differences and cost utility using linear mixed models and
presented the net monetary benefit at different values for willingness to pay per
quality-adjusted life-year gained. In our primary analysis, we excluded informal 
care hours because of substantial missing data for this item. The estimated mean 
total costs for the intervention group compared with controls were €125 lower for
patients, €29 lower for caregivers, and €122 higher for patient-caregiver pairs
(differences not significant). At a value of €40,000 per quality-adjusted
life-year gained (reported threshold for PD), the net monetary benefit of the
intervention per patient was €305 (P = 0.74), per caregiver €866 (P = 0.01) and
per patient-caregiver pair €845 (P = 0.24). In conclusion, occupational therapy
did not significantly impact on total costs compared with usual care. Positive
cost-effectiveness of the intervention was only significant for caregivers. ©
2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25854809  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


186. Front Comput Neurosci. 2015 Mar 18;9:34. doi: 10.3389/fncom.2015.00034.
eCollection 2015.

On the relationship among different motor processes: a computational modeling
approach.

Moustafa AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs, Marcs Institute for Brain and Behaviour and
School of Social Sciences and Psychology, University of Western Sydney Sydney,
NSW, Australia.

PMCID: PMC4364174
PMID: 25852532  [PubMed]


187. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2015 Jan;44(1):30-6.

[Neuroprotective effects of paeonol in a cell model of Parkinson disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang H(1), Geng ZM(2), Hu ZW(1), Wang SY(3), Zhao B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Tongde Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou
310012, China. (2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Weifang Medical College,
Weifang 261053, China. (3)Department of Anesthesiology, First Affiliated
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of paeonol on neuron cell model of
Parkinson disease (PD).
METHODS: The cell model of Parkinson disease was induced by treatment of
1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) in PC12 cells, the PD model cells were treated
with 1 μmol/L, 3 μmol/L or 9 μmol/L paeonol for 24h, respectively. Cell viability
and LDH leakage were detected by MTT and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay; the
apoptosis of PC12 cells was assessed by Hoechst 33258 staining and flow
cytometry; reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was detected by DCFH-DA
method; and the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 and activation of caspase-3 were determined by
Western blotting.
RESULTS: MPP+ treatment significantly reduced cell viability, increased LDH
leakage, enhanced the proportion of apoptotic cells and ROS production. In
addition, MPP+ treatment dramatically increased the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, and the
activation of caspase-3. Compared to PD model group, paeonol treatment
significantly enhanced cell viability, decreased LDH leakage, inhibited the
proportion of apoptotic cells and ROS production, reduced the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and
the activated caspase-3 protein.
CONCLUSION: Paeonol can prevent PC12 cells from apoptosis induced by MPP+, and
the mechanism may be associated with the down-regulation of ROS production,
Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and Caspase-3 activation.

PMID: 25851972  [PubMed - in process]


188. Int Psychogeriatr. 2015 Apr 8:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of CSF α-synuclein in the differential diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease 
and other neurodegenerative disorders.

Wang ZY(1), Han ZM(1), Liu QF(1), Tang W(2), Ye K(1), Yao YY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene,School of Public Health,Anhui Medical
University,No. 81 Meishan Road,Hefei,Anhui 230032,China. (2)Department of
Clinical Laboratory Medicine,School of Public Health,Anhui Medical University,No.
81 Meishan Road,Hefei,Anhui 230032,China.

BACKGROUND: The etiology and pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders has yet 
to be elucidated, so their differential diagnosis is a challenge. This is
especially true in differentiating Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy
bodies (DLB), Parkinson disease (PD), and multiple system atrophy (MSA).
METHODS: A total of 11 eligible articles were identified by search of electronic 
databases including PubMed, Springer Link, Elsevier, and the Cochrane Library, up
to June 2014. In meta-analyses, standardized mean differences (SMD), with 95%
confidence intervals (CI), comparing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) measures of
α-synuclein between the above conditions were calculated using random-effects
models.
RESULTS: CSF α-synuclein concentrations were significantly higher in AD compared 
to DLB [SMD: 0.32, 95% CI: (0.02, 0.62), z = 2.07, P = 0.038]; PD [SMD: 0.87, 95%
CI: (0.15, 1.58), z = 2.38, P = 0.017]; or MSA [SMD: 1.14, 95% CI: (0.15, 2.14), 
z = 2.25, P = 0.025]. However, no significant difference was found between
patients with AD and neurological cognitively normal controls [SMD: 0.02, 95% CI:
(-0.21, 0.24), z = 0.13, P = 0.894].
CONCLUSIONS: Results of these meta-analysis suggest that quantification of CSF
α-synuclein could help distinguish AD from other neurodegenerative disorders such
as DLB, PD, or MSA.

PMID: 25851548  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


189. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2015 Apr 3. [Epub ahead of print]

Onset of Mild Cognitive Impairment in Parkinson Disease.

Johnson DK(1), Langford Z, Garnier-Villarreal M, Morris JC, Galvin JE.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Psychology †Alzheimer Disease Center, University of Kansas
‡Departments of Neurology, Pathology and Immunology, Alzheimer Disease Research
Center, Washington University, St Louis §Departments of Neurology, Psychiatry,
and Population Health, Center for Cognitive Neurology, New York University School
of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: Characterize the onset and timing of cognitive decline in Parkinson
disease (PD) from the first recognizable stage of cognitively symptomatic PD-mild
cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) to PD dementia (PDD). Thirty-nine participants
progressed from PD to PDD and 25 remained cognitively normal.
METHODS: Bayesian-estimated disease-state models described the onset of an
individual's cognitive decline across 12 subtests with a change point.
RESULTS: Subtests measuring working memory, visuospatial processing ability, and 
crystalized memory changed significantly 3 to 5 years before their first nonzero 
Clinical Dementia Rating and progressively worsened from PD to PD-MCI to PDD.
Crystalized memory deficits were the hallmark feature of imminent conversion of
cognitive status. Episodic memory tasks were not sensitive to onset of PD-MCI.
For cognitively intact PD, all 12 subtests showed modest linear decline without
evidence of a change point.
CONCLUSIONS: Longitudinal disease-state models support a prodromal dementia stage
(PD-MCI) marked by early declines in working memory and visuospatial processing
beginning 5 years before clinical diagnosis of PDD. Cognitive declines in PD
affect motor ability (bradykinesia), working memory, and processing speed
(bradyphrenia) resulting in PD-MCI where visuospatial imagery and memory
retrieval deficits manifest before eventual development of overt dementia. Tests 
of episodic memory may not be sufficient to detect and quantify cognitive decline
in PD.

PMID: 25850732  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


190. Biochem Soc Trans. 2015 Apr 1;43(2):302-7. doi: 10.1042/BST20150010.

iPS models of Parkin and PINK1.

Rakovic A(1), Seibler P(1), Klein C(1).

Author information: 
(1)*Institute of Neurogenetics, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.

Parkinson disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system
resulting from depletion of dopaminergic neurons and currently remains incurable 
despite enormous international research efforts. The development of induced
pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology opened up the unique possibility of
studying disease mechanisms in human tissue that was otherwise not accessible,
such as the brain. Of particular interest are the monogenetic forms of PD as they
closely resemble the more common 'idiopathic' PD and, through the mutated
protein, provide a clear research target in iPSC-derived neurons. Recessively
inherited Parkin and PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) mutations have been
investigated in this context and the present review describes the first insights 
gained from studies in iPSC-derived dopaminergic neurons, which comprise
abnormalities in mitochondrial and dopamine homoeostasis, microtubular stability 
and axonal outgrowth. These new models of PD have a high translational potential 
that includes the identification of druggable targets, testing of known and novel
therapeutic agents in the disease-relevant tissue using well-defined read-outs
and potential regenerative approaches.

PMID: 25849934  [PubMed - in process]


191. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 7;10(4):e0123162. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123162.
eCollection 2015.

Decrease in Plasma Levels of α-Synuclein Is Evident in Patients with Parkinson's 
Disease after Elimination of Heterophilic Antibody Interference.

Ishii R(1), Tokuda T(2), Tatebe H(3), Ohmichi T(1), Kasai T(1), Nakagawa M(4),
Mizuno T(1), El-Agnaf OM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto,
Japan. (2)Department of Neurology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine,
Kyoto, Japan; Department of Molecular Pathobiology of Brain Diseases, Kyoto
Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. (3)Department of Neurology,
Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan; Department of Zaitaku
(Homecare), Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan; Department of
Medical Education and Primary Care, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine,
Kyoto, Japan. (4)North Medical Center, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan. (5)College of Science, Engineering and Technology, HBKU, Education 
City, Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.

There is substantial biochemical, pathological, and genetic evidence that
α-synuclein (A-syn) is a principal molecule in the pathogenesis of Parkinson
disease (PD). We previously reported that total A-syn levels in cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF), measured with the specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
developed by ourselves, were decreased in patients with PD, and suggested the
usefulness of A-syn in CSF and plasma as a biomarker for the diagnosis of PD.
After our report, a considerable number of studies have investigated the levels
A-syn in CSF and in blood, but have reported inconclusive results. Such
discrepancies have often been attributed not only to the use of different
antibodies in the ELISAs but also to interference from hemolysis. In this study
we measured the levels of A-syn in CSF and plasma by using our own sandwich ELISA
with or without heterophilic antibody (HA) inhibitor in 30 patients with PD and
58 age-matched controls. We thereby revealed that HA interfered with ELISA
measurements of A-syn and are accordingly considered to be an important
confounder in A-syn ELISAs. HA produced falsely exaggerated signals in A-syn
ELISAs more prominently in plasma samples than in CSF samples. After elimination 
of HA interference, it was found that hemolysis did not have a significant effect
on the signals obtained using our A-syn ELISA. Furthermore, plasma levels of
A-syn were significantly lower in the PD group compared with the control group
following elimination of HA interference with an HA inhibitor. Our results
demonstrate that HA was a major confounder that should be controlled in A-syn
ELISAs, and that plasma A-syn could be a useful biomarker for the diagnosis of PD
if adequately quantified following elimination of HA interference.

PMCID: PMC4388641
PMID: 25849645  [PubMed - in process]


192. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 2. doi: 10.1002/mds.26219. [Epub ahead of print]

Gastroretentive carbidopa/levodopa, DM-1992, for the treatment of advanced
Parkinson's disease.

Verhagen Metman L(1), Stover N, Chen C, Cowles VE, Sweeney M.

Author information: 
(1)Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

This study was undertaken to compare efficacy, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics
of DM-1992, an extended-release formulation of carbidopa/levodopa (CD/l-dopa)
with immediate-release (IR) CD/l-dopa in patients with advanced Parkinson's
disease. This randomized, open-label, crossover study included a 3-d baseline and
two 10-d treatment periods. Patients with daily OFF time of 2.5 h or more taking 
400 mg or more l-dopa/d in four or more divided doses were titrated to stable
regimens of DM-1992 2 times per day or CD/l-dopa IR 3 times to 8 times per day.
Patients were allowed to take rescue CD/l-dopa as needed. Using home diaries,
patients recorded OFF time and ON time with or without troublesome dyskinesia
during baseline and treatment days 7 through 9. During 12-h clinic visits on day 
10, plasma samples were collected for pharmacokinetics, and motor performance was
assessed hourly. Thirty-four patients were enrolled; mean baseline l-dopa dosage 
was 968 mg/d. After titration, CD/l-dopa IR was dosed 4.8 times per day and
DM-1992, 2 times per day. Rescue CD/l-dopa IR was given 1.3 times during the
DM-1992 arm and 0.2 times during the CD/l-dopa IR arm. The reduction from
baseline in % OFF time was greater for DM-1992 compared with CD/l-dopa IR (-5.52%
vs. +1.33%; P = 0.0471). At steady-state, compared with CD/l-dopa IR, DM-1992
exhibited a smoother plasma l-dopa concentration profile mostly because of a
significantly higher (day 10) predose l-dopa concentration, associated with
enhanced motor performance. Although more patients taking DM-1992 had one or more
adverse events (AEs) than CD/l-dopa IR patients (35% vs. 15%), no pattern to the 
AEs was seen, nor any resulting discontinuations. DM-1992 was associated with a
reduction in %OFF time compared with CD/l-dopa IR despite a reduced dosing
frequency. Although the open-label study design and the greater number of rescue 
doses during the DM-1992 arm call for caution in interpreting the results, the
elevated predose plasma l-dopa concentration (12 h after DM-1992 administration) 
lends objective support to our findings, suggesting that phase 3 studies are
warranted. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25847690  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


193. Epilepsia. 2015 Apr 3. doi: 10.1111/epi.12980. [Epub ahead of print]

Talairach methodology in the era of 3D multimodal imaging: "The song remains the 
same," but catchier, and therefore more helpful for clinical decision making and 
surgical planning in epilepsy surgery.

Cardinale F(1).

Author information: 
(1)"Claudio Munari" Center for Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery, Niguarda Hospital,
Milano, Italy. francesco.cardinale@ospedaleniguarda.it.

PMID: 25847679  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


194. Complement Ther Med. 2015 Apr;23(2):210-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2015.01.010. Epub 
2015 Jan 16.

Effects of dance on motor functions, cognitive functions, and mental symptoms of 
Parkinson's disease: A quasi-randomized pilot trial.

Hashimoto H(1), Takabatake S(2), Miyaguchi H(3), Nakanishi H(4), Naitou Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Aino University School of Nursing and
Rehabilitation, Osaka, Japan; Graduate School of Comprehensive Rehabilitation,
Osaka Prefecture University, Osaka, Japan. Electronic address:
h-hashimoto@ot-u.aino.ac.jp. (2)Graduate School of Comprehensive Rehabilitation, 
Osaka Prefecture University, Osaka, Japan. (3)Graduate School of Health Science, 
Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan. (4)Department of Clinical Support,
Hiroshima University Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effectiveness of dance on motor functions, cognitive
functions, and mental symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD).
DESIGN: This study employed a quasi-randomised, between-group design.
SETTING: Dance, PD exercise, and all assessments were performed in community
halls in different regions of Japan.
PARTICIPANTS: Forty-six mild-moderate PD patients participated.
INTERVENTION: Six PD patient associations that agreed to participate in the study
were randomly assigned to a dance group, PD exercise group, or non-intervention
group. The dance and PD exercise groups performed one 60-min session per week for
12 weeks. Control group patients continued with their normal lives. All groups
were assessed before and after the intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We used the Timed Up-and-Go Test (TUG) and Berg Balance
Scale (BBS) to assess motor function, the Frontal Assessment Battery at bedside
(FAB) and Mental Rotation Task (MRT) to assess cognitive function, and the Apathy
Scale (AS) and Self-rating Depression Scale (SDS) to assess mental symptoms of
PD. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) was used for general
assessment of PD.
RESULTS: When comparing results before and after intervention, the dance group
showed a large effect in TUG time (ES=0.65, p=0.006), TUG step number (ES=0.66,
p=0.005), BBS (ES=0.75, p=0.001), FAB (ES=0.77, p=0.001), MRT response time
(ES=0.79, p<0.001), AS (ES=0.78, p<0.001), SDS (ES=0.66, p=0.006) and UPDRS
(ES=0.88, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Dance was effective in improving motor function, cognitive function,
and mental symptoms in PD patients. General symptoms in PD also improved. Dance
is an effective method for rehabilitation in PD patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25847558  [PubMed - in process]


195. Complement Ther Med. 2015 Apr;23(2):175-84. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2015.01.015. Epub
2015 Feb 9.

Tango for treatment of motor and non-motor manifestations in Parkinson's disease:
A randomized control study.

Rios Romenets S(1), Anang J(1), Fereshtehnejad SM(2), Pelletier A(1), Postuma
R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, McGill University, Montreal General Hospital,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. (2)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society (NVS), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. (3)Department of Neurology, McGill University, Montreal General Hospital,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic address: ron.postuma@mcgill.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To determine effects of Argentine tango on motor and non-motor
manifestations of Parkinson's disease.
DESIGN: Randomized control trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Forty patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
SETTING: Movement disorder clinic and dance studio.
INTERVENTION: Two randomized groups: group (N=18) with 24 partnered tango
classes, and control self-directed exercise group (N=15).
MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURES: The primary outcome was overall motor severity. Secondary
outcomes included other motor measures, balance, cognition, fatigue, apathy,
depression and quality of life.
RESULTS: On the primary intention-to-treat analysis there was no difference in
motor severity between groups MDS-UPDRS-3 (1.6 vs.1.2-point reduction, p=0.85).
Patient-rated clinical global impression of change did not differ (p=0.33),
however examiner rating improved in favor of tango (p=0.02). Mini-BESTest
improved in the tango group compared to controls (0.7±2.2 vs. -2.7±5.9, p=0.032).
Among individual items, tango improved in both simple TUG time (-1.3±1.6s vs.
0.1±2.3, p=0.042) and TUG Dual Task score (0.4±0.9 vs. -0.2±0.4, p=0.012), with
borderline improvement in walk with pivot turns (0.2±0.5 vs. -0.1±0.5, p=0.066). 
MoCa (0.4±1.6 vs. -0.6±1.5, p=0.080) and FSS (-3.6±10.5 vs. 2.5±6.2, p=0.057)
showed a non-significant trend toward improvement in the tango group. Tango
participants found the activity more enjoyable (p<0.001) and felt more "overall" 
treatment satisfaction (p<0.001). We found no significant differences in other
outcomes or adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Argentine tango can improve balance, and functional mobility, and may
have modest benefits upon cognition and fatigue in Parkinson's disease. These
findings must be confirmed in longer-term trials explicitly powered for cognition
and fatigue.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25847555  [PubMed - in process]


196. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):525-30. doi: 10.1002/mds.26156.

Development and validation of a clinical scale for rating the severity of
Blepharospasm.

Defazio G(1), Hallett M, Jinnah HA, Stebbins GT, Gigante AF, Ferrazzano G, Conte 
A, Fabbrini G, Berardelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Neuroscience and Sensory Organs, "Aldo
Moro" University of Bari, Bari, Italy.

Existing scales for rating the severity of blepharospasm (BSP) are limited by a
number of potential drawbacks. We therefore developed and validated a novel scale
for rating the severity of BSP. The development of the scale started with careful
examination of the clinical spectrum of the condition by a panel of experts who
selected phenomenological aspects thought to be relevant to disease severity.
Thereafter, selected items were first checked for reliability, then reliable
items were combined to generate the scale, and clinimetric properties of the
scale were evaluated. Finally, the confidence with which the scale could be used 
by people without high levels of movement disorders skill was assessed. The new
scale, based on objective criteria, yielded moderate to almost perfect
reliability, acceptable internal consistency, satisfactory scaling assumptions,
lack of floor and ceiling effects, partial correlations with a prior severity
scale and with a quality of life scale, and good sensitivity to change. Despite a
few limitations, the foregoing features make the novel scale more suitable than
existing scales to assess the severity of BSP in natural history and
pathophysiologic studies as well as in clinical trials. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25847472  [PubMed - in process]


197. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Apr 6. doi: 10.1111/ane.12406. [Epub ahead of print]

Olfactory function in Parkinson's Disease - effects of training.

Knudsen K(1), Flensborg Damholdt M, Mouridsen K, Borghammer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Centre, Aarhus University Hospital,
Aarhus, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Up to 90% of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) exhibit olfactory
dysfunction, but little is known about the effects of olfactory training. The
study aim was to investigate whether the ability to identify olfactory stimuli
can be improved by means of a brief training session. Furthermore, the impact of 
hyposmia on quality of life in PD was investigated by means of a questionnaire.
METHODS: Olfactory function was rated in 34 patients with PD and in 26 controls
before and after a training session. An additional 20 patients with PD served as 
a control group and were tested twice without an intervening training session.
Long-term effects were evaluated in a small subset of patients. Cognitive tests
and DaT SPECT scans were performed.
RESULTS: We demonstrated significant same-day and long-term training effects in
trained PD patients compared with non-trained PD patients. A slightly significant
correlation was seen between the training effect and DaT putamen values, but not 
with cognitive test scores. Furthermore, patients with PD reported that hyposmia 
significantly decreased their quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with PD improved the number of correctly identified odors
in an olfactory test through a brief training session. Olfactory training may
have potential in rehabilitation of patients with PD.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25846906  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


198. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2015 Apr 2. doi: 10.1002/pds.3781. [Epub ahead of
print]

Calcium channel blocker use and risk of Parkinson's disease: a meta-analysis.

Lang Y(1), Gong D, Fan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Translational Medicine, The Affiliated
People's Hospital, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, 212002, Jiangsu, China.

PURPOSES: Whether calcium channel blocker (CCB) use contributes to a low risk of 
developing a first time diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains
controversial. We conducted a meta-analysis to investigate the relationship
between CCB use and PD risk.
METHODS: Pubmed, EMBASE, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, and WanFang
databases were searched for papers through May 2014. Studies investigating the
association between CCB use and the risk of first time diagnosis of PD were
included. Pooled adjusted risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were
calculated using a fixed-effect model.
RESULTS: Five studies involving 208 248 CCB users were identified. Overall, CCB
use was associated with a reduction in PD risk (RR = 0.76, 95%CI = 0.68-0.84)
compared with the controls. Subgroup analysis showed that dihydropyridine CCB use
reduced by 27% PD risk (RR = 0.73, 95%CI = 0.64-0.83) and non-dihydropyridine CCB
use reduced by 30% PD risk (RR = 0.70, 95%CI = 0.50-0.93).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, CCB use as a class is associated with a reduction in PD
risk. Both of dihydropyridine and non-dihydropyridine CCB use appear to reduce
the risk of developing a first time diagnosis of PD. More well-designed
prospective studies are needed to investigate the difference of the subtype of
CCB user on PD risk. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25845582  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


199. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 2015 Feb;40(1):56-60.

[Acupoint injection of kakkonein for early- or mid-stage Parkinson's disease: a
multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu CH, Wang R, Jin YB, Sun ZL, Zhou X, He JY.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate short- and long-term benefits and safety of acupoint
injection of kakkonein for early- or mid-stage Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: A total of 135 patients with early- or mid-stage PD were enlisted and
116 cases completed the observation, including 40 cases in the acupoint-injection
group, 37 cases in the acupuncture group and 39 cases in the medication group.
Patients of the acupoint-injection group were treated by injection of kakkonein
(2 mL) into bilateral Fengchi (GB 20), once very other day for 8 weeks. For
acupuncture intervention, bilateral GB 20 acupoints were punctured with filiform 
needles, once every other day for 8 weeks. Patients of the medication group were 
treated by oral administration of compound levodopa (125 mg/time, twice a day)
for 8 weeks. The disease severity was assessed by using Unified Parkinson's
Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS, version 3. 0) before and after treatment, and one
month after the treatment.
RESULTS: After the treatment, scores of psychosis, behavior and emotion, daily
life activity and motor function were all significantly decreased in the three
groups in comparison with pre-treatment in each group (P<0.05), suggesting an
improvement of the PD patients' conditions. The therapeutic effect of
acupoint-injection and acupuncture groups was markedly superior to that of the
medication group (P<0.05). One-month's follow-up showed that the scores of
behavior-emotion and daily life activity were obviously lower in the
acupoint-injection group than in the acupuncture and medication groups (P<0.05). 
No significant differences were found between the acupuncture and medication
groups in down-regulating scores of behavior-emotion, daily life activity and
motor function (P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Acupoint injection of kakkonein can improve patients' behavior,
emotion, and daily life activity in early- or mid-stage PD patients and has both 
short- and longer-term benefits.

PMID: 25845222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2015 Apr 2. pii: S1084-9521(15)00048-8. doi:
10.1016/j.semcdb.2015.03.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Autophagy in neurodegenerative diseases: From pathogenic dysfunction to
therapeutic modulation.

Martinez-Vicente M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Vall d'Hebron Research
Institute-CIBERNED, Barcelona, Spain; Autonomous University of Barcelona,
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: marta.martinez@vhir.org.

Neuronal homeostasis depends on the proper functioning of quality control systems
like autophagy. This mechanism is responsible of the clearance of misfolded
proteins, aggregates and the turnover of organelles within the neuron. Autophagic
dysfunction has been described in many neurodegenerative diseases. It can occur
at several steps of the autophagic machinery and can contribute to the formation 
of intracellular aggregates and ultimately to neuronal death. Accordingly
restoring autophagy activity in affected neurons can be an attractive therapeutic
approach to fight neurodegeneration. In this review we summarize the present
encouraging strategies that have been achieved with pharmacological and genetic
treatments aimed to induce neuronal autophagy in experimental models of
neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25843774  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


201. Prog Urol. 2015 Apr 3. pii: S1166-7087(15)00077-9. doi:
10.1016/j.purol.2015.02.004. [Epub ahead of print]

[Is nocturnal polyuria more frequent among patients with Parkinson's disease?]

[Article in French]

Romain J(1), Torny F(2), Dumas JP(1), Gamé X(3), Descazeaud A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service de chirurgie urologique, CHU de Limoges, faculté de médecine,
université de Limoges, 87042 Limoges, France. (2)Service de neurologie, CHU de
Limoges, faculté de médecine, université de Limoges, 87042 Limoges, France.
(3)Service de chirurgie urologique, CHU de Toulouse, faculté de médecine,
université de Toulouse, 31000 Toulouse, France.

OBJECTIVE: Nocturia is a frequent complaint in the population of idiopathic
Parkinson's disease patients (IPD). The consequences of nocturia in the IPD
population are at high importance as these patients have motor problems and
therefore a risk of nocturnal fall. The aim of the study was to determine the
mechanism of nocturia in patients with MPI, by determining the prevalence of
nocturnal polyuria (NP) in this population.
METHOD: A prospective study by bladder diary was conducted on 70 consecutive IPD 
patients consulting for regular neurological follow-up at a non-severe stage.
Nocturia was defined as 1 or more awakenings to urinate. Two definitions of NP
were used: nocturnal diuresis 33% or higher of the total diuresis (NUV33), which 
is the ICS (International Continence Society) definition, and nocturnal diuresis 
90mL/h or higher (NUP90).
RESULTS: The mean patient age was 71 years (45-86, sex ratio 33/30). On average, 
patients were diagnosed for IPD 6.76 years earlier. The prevalence of NP was
64.5% according to NUV33 definition, and 17.7% according to NUP90 definition.
Among patients with nocturia, the prevalence of NP was 66% (NUV33) and 21.5%
(NUP90). No association was observed between disease duration of the IPD and the 
prevalence of nocturia and NP. Patients 70 years and older were more likely to
have NP as defined by NUV33 than those less than 70 years (72.7% versus 55.17%,
P=0.015). Men had more frequently nocturia (33.3% versus 20.7%, P=0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of NP and nocturia was analyzed in patients with IPD 
at a non-severe stage. This prevalence was not higher than in the general
population of the same age. The mechanism of nocturia in patients with IPD is not
unambiguous and therefore requires to be explored by a bladder diary.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25843636  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


202. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 27. pii: S1353-8020(15)00122-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Varying time-course of effects of high frequency stimulation of sub-regions of
the globus pallidus in patients with parkinson's disease.

Angeli A(1), Akram H(1), Zacharia A(1), Limousin P(1), Hariz M(1), Zrinzo L(1),
Foltynie T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Functional Neurosurgery, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen Square,
London WC1N 3BG, UK. (2)Unit of Functional Neurosurgery, UCL Institute of
Neurology, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK. Electronic address:
T.Foltynie@ucl.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Deep brain stimulation of the globus pallidus can be a highly
effective treatment for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), experiencing
Levodopa-induced-dyskinesia (LID). Stimulation programming can focus simply on
eliminating dyskinesia, or can also attempt to relieve the rigidity, tremor or
akinesia of PD itself.
METHODS: In this study, we explored whether additional benefit on the "off"
symptoms and signs of PD, could be achieved in post-operative PD patients with
good LID control, by making further adjustment to existing stimulation parameters
directed towards the more superior electrode contacts, located in the Globus
Pallidus pars externa (GPe).
RESULTS: Acutely, GPe-DBS led to clear improvement in the akinesia, rigidity and 
tremor of PD in the off-medication state compared with Globus Pallidus pars
interna (GPi) DBS (p = 0.003), however this was accompanied by the development of
off-medication dyskinesia. Combined GPi-GPe DBS allowed maintained improvement
but without dyskinesia. Follow up of patients over the subsequent 6-12 weeks
showed gradual loss of this initial improvement. Switching back to GPi-DBS alone 
provided greater improvement in off medication symptoms than had been observed
using the same GPi-DBS setting, 6-12 weeks previously.
CONCLUSIONS: Benefits on the off-medication symptoms of PD obtained acutely with 
GPe-DBS are in general not sustained. Similarly, the effects of GPi-DBS on the
off medication symptoms of PD, can evolve over short periods of time presumably
as a result of changes in network-wide neuronal plasticity. These clinical
observations provide further insight into DBS mechanism of action, and can also
help inform optimal methods of GPi-DBS programming.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25842261  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


203. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 20. pii: S1353-8020(15)00098-X. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.003. [Epub ahead of print]

The medical treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease receiving subthalamic 
neurostimulation.

Alexoudi A(1), Shalash A(1), Knudsen K(1), Witt K(1), Mehdorn M(2), Volkmann
J(1), Deuschl G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel Campus,
Christian-Albrechts University Kiel, Germany. (2)Department of Neurosurgery,
Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel Campus, Christian-Albrechts
University Kiel, Germany. (3)Department of Neurology, Universitätsklinikum
Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel Campus, Christian-Albrechts University Kiel, Germany.
Electronic address: g.deuschl@neurologie.uni-kiel.de.

INTRODUCTION: Deep brain stimulation of subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) for
Parkinson's disease allows for a reduction in medication dosage. Changes in total
levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) have been frequently reported, there is
little information about changes within the drug classes.
METHODS: We retrospectively assessed the changes in antiparkinsonian drugs
dosages in 150 patients from one center who had preoperative and postoperative
evaluations at 6 months and 3 years. Two long term subgroups with postoperative
follow-up till the 5th-6th year (n = 58) and 10th year (n = 15) were included.
RESULTS: The major modifications in medication dosage occurred during the initial
postoperative period. LEDD was reduced by 53.4% compared to baseline at 6 months 
and 47.9% at 3 years. Fifty six percent and 41.3% of the patients were on
monotherapy, 9.3% on no medication at 6 months and 6.7% at 3 years post surgery. 
Patients on levodopa, or dopamine agonists showed similar reductions. At the 3rd 
year the oldest group of patients showed a significant decrease in dopamine
agonists. The number of patients treated with amantadine was significantly
reduced; however the number of patients treated with antidepressants was
significantly increased over the first 3 years. Annual medication costs per
patient were decreased after the DBS-STN implantation by 61.3% at 6 months and
55.4% at 3 years.
CONCLUSION: STN-DBS allows for a reduction in the dosage of medication and the
costs are similarly reduced. In this cohort different medication groups were
reduced to a similar extent. Patients' demographic factors did not play a major
role in the selection of treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25842260  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


204. Neurotoxicology. 2015 Apr 1;48:166-170. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2015.03.012. [Epub
ahead of print]

The neuroprotective effect of lovastatin on MPP(+)-induced neurotoxicity is not
mediated by PON2.

Aguirre-Vidal Y(1), Montes S(2), Tristan-López L(2), Anaya-Ramos L(1), Teiber
J(3), Ríos C(4), Baron-Flores V(5), Monroy-Noyola A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Neuroprotección, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Autónoma del
Estado de Morelos, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico. (2)Departamento de Neuroquímica, 
Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía, M.V.S., D.F., Mexico.
(3)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Internal Medicine, The University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. (4)Departamento de
Neuroquímica, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía, M.V.S., D.F.,
Mexico; Laboratorio de Neurofarmacologia Molecular, Departamento de Sistemas
Biológicos, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Xochimilco, D.F., Mexico.
(5)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacologia Molecular, Departamento de Sistemas
Biológicos, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Xochimilco, D.F., Mexico.
(6)Laboratorio de Neuroprotección, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Autónoma del
Estado de Morelos, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico. Electronic address:
amonroy@uaem.mx.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of
the pigmented dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta with
subsequent striatal dopamine (DA) deficiency and increased lipid peroxidation.
The etiology of the disease is still unclear and it is thought that PD may be
caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. In the search of
new pharmacological options, statins have been recognized for their potential
application to treat PD, due to their antioxidant effect. The aim of this work is
to contribute in the characterization of the neuroprotective effect of lovastatin
in a model of PD induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)). Male Wistar
rats (200-250g) were randomly allocated into 4 groups and administered for 7 days
with different pharmacological treatments. Lovastatin administration (5mg/kg)
diminished 40% of the apomorphine-induced circling behavior, prevented the
striatal DA depletion and lipid peroxides formation by MPP(+) intrastriatal
injection, as compared to the group of animals treated only with MPP(+).
Lovastatin produced no change in paraoxonase-2 (PON2) activity. It is evident
that lovastatin conferred neuroprotection against MPP(+)-induced protection but
this effect was not associated with the induction of PON2 in the rat striatum.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25842176  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


205. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Jun;78:162-71. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.03.023. Epub 2015 Apr 
2.

Post-mortem assessment of the short and long-term effects of the trophic factor
neurturin in patients with α-synucleinopathies.

Bartus RT(1), Kordower JH(2), Johnson EM Jr(3), Brown L(4), Kruegel BR(4), Chu
Y(2), Baumann TL(5), Lang AE(6), Olanow CW(7), Herzog CD(4).

Author information: 
(1)RTBioconsultants, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA; Ceregene, Inc, USA. Electronic
address: bartus@RTBioconsultants.com. (2)Rush Presbyterian Medical Center,
Chicago, IL, USA. (3)Washington University Medical School, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(4)Ceregene, Inc, USA. (5)Isis Pharmaceuticals, Carlsbad, CA, USA; Ceregene, Inc,
USA. (6)Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Canada. (7)Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, NYC, USA.

Substantial interest persists for developing neurotrophic factors to treat
neurodegenerative diseases. At the same time, significant progress has been made 
in implementing gene therapy as a means to provide long-term expression of
bioactive neurotrophic factors to targeted sites in the brain. Nonetheless, to
date, no double-blind clinical trial has achieved positive results on its primary
endpoint despite robust benefits achieved in animal models. A major issue with
advancing the field is the paucity of information regarding the expression and
effects of neurotrophic factors in human neurodegenerative brain, relative to the
well-characterized responses in animal models. To help fill this information
void, we examined post-mortem brain tissue from four patients with nigrostriatal 
degeneration who had participated in clinical trials testing gene delivery of
neurturin to the putamen of patients. Each had died of unrelated causes ranging
from 1.5-to-3-months (2 Parkinson's disease patients), to 4+-years (1 Parkinson's
disease and 1 multiple-system atrophy-parkinsonian type patient) following gene
therapy. Quantitative and immunohistochemical evaluation of neurturin,
alpha-synuclein, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and an oligodendroglia marker (Olig 2)
were performed in each brain. Comparable volumes-of-expression of neurturin were 
seen in the putamen in all cases (~15-22%; mean=18.5%). TH-signal in the putamen 
was extremely sparse in the shorter-term cases. A 6-fold increase was seen in
longer-term cases, but was far less than achieved in animal models of
nigrostriatal degeneration with similar or even far less NRTN exposure. Less than
1% of substantia nigra (SN) neurons stained for neurturin in the shorter-term
cases. A 15-fold increase was seen in the longer-term cases, but neurturin was
still only detected in ~5% of nigral cells. These data provide unique insight
into the functional status of advanced, chronic nigrostriatal degeneration in
human brain and the response of these neurons to neurotrophic factor stimulation.
They demonstrate mild but persistent expression of gene-mediated neurturin over
4-years, with an apparent, time-related amplification of its transport and
biological effects, albeit quite weak, and provide unique information to help
plan and design future trials.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25841760  [PubMed - in process]


206. Semin Nucl Med. 2015 May;45(3):224-233. doi: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2014.12.003.

PET/MR in Dementia and Other Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Barthel H(1), Schroeter ML(2), Hoffmann KT(3), Sabri O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Leipzig University Hospital, Leipzig, Germany.
Electronic address: henryk.barthel@medizin.uni-leipzig.de. (2)Clinic for
Cognitive Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences,
Leipzig, Germany; LIFE-Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases,
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. (3)Department of Neuroradiology, Leipzig
University, Leipzig, Germany. (4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Leipzig
University Hospital, Leipzig, Germany; LIFE-Leipzig Research Center for
Civilization Diseases, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

The spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases covers the dementias, parkinsonian
syndromes, Huntington disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and prion diseases.
In these entities, brain MRI is often used in clinical routine to exclude other
pathologies and to demonstrate specific atrophy patterns. [(18)F]FDG PET delivers
early and sensitive readouts of neural tissue loss, and more specific PET tracers
currently in use clinically target β-amyloid plaques or dopaminergic deficiency. 
The recent integration of PET into MR technology offers a new chance to improve
early and differential diagnosis of many neurodegenerative diseases. Initial
evidence in the literature is available to support this notion. New emerging PET 
tracers, such as tracers that bind to tau or α-synuclein aggregates, as well as
MR techniques, like diffusion-tensor imaging, resting-state functional MRI, and
arterial spin labeling, have the potential to broaden the diagnostic capabilities
of combined PET/MRI to image dementias, Parkinson disease, and other
neurodegenerative diseases. The ultimate goal is to establish combined PET/MRI as
a first-line imaging technique to provide, in a one-stop-shop fashion with
improved patient comfort, all biomarker information required to increase
diagnostic confidence toward specific diagnoses. The technical challenge of
accurate PET data attenuation correction within PET/MRI systems needs yet to be
solved. Apart from the projected clinical routine applications, future research
would need to answer the questions of whether combined brain PET/MRI is able to
improve basic research of neurodegenerative diseases and antineurodegeneration
drug testing.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25841277  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


207. Neurology. 2015 May 5;84(18):1862-9. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001534. Epub 2015
Apr 3.

Low muscle strength in late adolescence and Parkinson disease later in life.

Gustafsson H(1), Aasly J(1), Stråhle S(1), Nordström A(1), Nordström P(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Geriatrics (H.G., P.N.) and Rehabilitation Medicine (S.S.), Department of
Community Medicine and Rehabilitation, Clinical Neuroscience (J.A.), Department
of Pharmacology and Clinical Neuroscience, and Occupational and Environmental
Medicine (A.N.), Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå
University, Sweden. (2)From Geriatrics (H.G., P.N.) and Rehabilitation Medicine
(S.S.), Department of Community Medicine and Rehabilitation, Clinical
Neuroscience (J.A.), Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Neuroscience, and
Occupational and Environmental Medicine (A.N.), Department of Public Health and
Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, Sweden. peter.nordstrom@germed.umu.se.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate maximal isometric muscle force at 18 years of age in
relation to Parkinson disease (PD) later in life.
METHODS: The cohort consisted of 1,317,713 men who had their muscle strength
measured during conscription (1969-1996). Associations between participants'
muscle strength at conscription and PD diagnoses, also in their parents, were
examined using multivariate statistical models.
RESULTS: After adjustment for confounders, the lowest compared to the highest
fifth of handgrip strength (hazard ratio [HR] 1.38, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
1.06-1.79), elbow flexion strength (HR 1.34, 95% CI 1.02-1.76), but not knee
extension strength (HR 1.24, 95% CI 0.94-1.62) was associated with an increased
risk of PD during follow-up. Furthermore, men whose parents were diagnosed with
PD had reduced handgrip (fathers: mean difference [MD] -5.7 N [95% CI -7.3 to
-4.0]; mothers: MD -5.0 N [95% CI -7.0 to -2.9]) and elbow flexion (fathers: MD
-4.3 N [95% CI -5.7 to -2.9]; mothers: MD -3.9 N [95% CI -5.7 to -2.2]) strength,
but not knee extension strength (fathers: MD -1.1 N [95% CI -2.9 to 0.8];
mothers: MD -0.7 N [95% CI -3.1 to 1.6]), than those with no such familial
history.
CONCLUSIONS: Maximal upper extremity voluntary muscle force was reduced in late
adolescence in men diagnosed with PD 30 years later. The findings suggest the
presence of subclinical motor deficits 3 decades before the clinical onset of PD.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25841033  [PubMed - in process]


208. Neurology. 2015 May 5;84(18):1868. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001549. Epub 2015
Apr 3.

Comment: Muscle strength at age 18 and Parkinson disease among Swedish men from a
nationwide cohort.

Wang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Epidemiology and Population Health and Neurology,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshiva University, Bronx, NY.

PMID: 25841023  [PubMed - in process]


209. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):494-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.019. Epub 2015 Mar 2.

Cognitive and behavioral symptoms in Parkinson's disease patients with the G2019S
and R1441G mutations of the LRRK2 gene.

Somme JH(1), Molano Salazar A(2), Gonzalez A(2), Tijero B(2), Berganzo K(2),
Lezcano E(2), Fernandez Martinez M(2), Zarranz JJ(2), Gómez-Esteban JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Alava University Hospital, Osakidetza, Spain.
Electronic address: johannehatteland.somme@osakidetza.net. (2)Movement Disorders 
and Autonomic Unit, Department of Neurology, Cruces University Hospital,
Department of Neurosciences, University of the Basque Country, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cognitive and psychiatric status of patients with
Parkinson's disease related to the G2019S and the R1441G mutations of the LRRK2
gene (LRRK2-PD) and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (iPD) patients.
METHODS: We examined cognition and psychiatric symptoms in 27 patients with
LRRK2-PD (12 G2019S and 15 R1441G) and 27 iPD patients.
RESULTS: The groups were similar in age, education, disease duration, levodopa
equivalent daily dose, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)
II-IV; however, the LRRK2-PD showed less impairment on UPDRS-I (2.0 ± 1.7 vs.
4.2 ± 2.8, p = 0.003). The LRRK2-PD presented less frequent subjective cognitive 
complaints (18.5% vs. 63.0%, p = 0.002), and mild cognitive impairment or
dementia (25.9% vs. 59.2%, p = 0.027). They also showed less impairment on scales
for general cognition (Mattis dementia rating scale 131.2 ± 10.9 vs. 119 ± 24.0, 
p = 0.022), episodic verbal memory (Rey's auditory verbal learning test,
immediate recall 39.2 ± 9.5 vs. 27.6 ± 12.8 p < 0.001, delayed recall 7.2 ± 3.7
vs. 4.7 ± 4.0 p = 0.022), and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (9.7 ± 9.2 vs.
20.5 ± 14.3, p = 0.004, significant differences for apathy and hallucinations).
The LRRK2-PD subjects were less frequently treated with antipsychotic medication 
(0% vs. 25.9%, p = 0.010). There were no significant differences between G2019S
and R1441G mutation carriers.
CONCLUSIONS: Mutations of the LRRK2 gene might cause PD associated with less
cognitive and neuropsychiatric impairment as compared to iPD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25840672  [PubMed - in process]


210. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Apr 1;95:367-376. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.03.020. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Long-term treatment with l-DOPA or pramipexole affects adult neurogenesis and
corresponding non-motor behavior in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.

Chiu WH(1), Depboylu C(1), Hermanns G(1), Maurer L(1), Windolph A(1), Oertel
WH(1), Ries V(2), Höglinger GU(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany. (2)Department 
of Neurology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany. Electronic address:
ries@med.uni-marburg.de. (3)Department of Neurology, Philipps-University,
Marburg, Germany; Department of Neurology, Technical University, Munich, Germany;
German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Munich, Germany.

Non-motor symptoms such as hyposmia and depression are often observed in
Parkinson's disease (PD) and can precede the onset of motor symptoms for years.
The underlying pathological alterations in the brain are not fully understood so 
far. Dysregulation of adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus 
and the olfactory bulb has been recently suggested to be implicated in non-motor 
symptoms of PD. However, there is so far no direct evidence to support the
relationship of non-motor symptoms and the modulation of adult neurogenesis
following dopamine depletion and/or dopamine replacement. In this study, we
investigated the long-term effects of l-DOPA and pramipexole, a dopamine agonist,
in a mouse model of bilateral intranigral 6-OHDA lesion, in order to assess the
impact of adult neurogenesis on non-motor behavior. We found that l-DOPA and
pramipexole can normalize decreased neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus
and the periglomerular layer of the olfactory bulb caused by a 6-OHDA lesion.
Interestingly, pramipexole showed an antidepressant and anxiolytic effect in the 
forced swim test and social interaction test. However, there was no significant
change in learning and memory function after dopamine depletion and dopamine
replacement, respectively.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25839898  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


211. Phys Ther. 2015 Apr;95(4):685. doi: 10.2522/ptj.20130334.cx.

Gisbert R, Schenkman M. Physical therapist interventions for Parkinson disease.
Phys Ther. 2015;95:299-305.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 25838455  [PubMed - in process]


212. J Pharmacol Sci. 2015 Mar;127(3):305-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jphs.2015.01.010. Epub
2015 Feb 20.

DJ-1-dependent protective activity of DJ-1-binding compound no. 23 against
neuronal cell death in MPTP-treated mouse model of Parkinson's disease.

Takahashi-Niki K(1), Inafune A(2), Michitani N(2), Hatakeyama Y(2), Suzuki K(2), 
Sasaki M(2), Kitamura Y(3), Niki T(4), Iguchi-Ariga SM(4), Ariga H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hokkaido University, Kita-ku, Sapporo
060-0812, Japan. (2)Central Research Laboratory, New Drug Research Center, Inc., 
Toiso, Eniwa 061-1405, Japan. (3)Department of Clinical and Translational
Physiology, Kyoto Pharmaceutical University, 5 Nakauchi-cho, Misasagi,
Yamashina-ku, Kyoto 607-8414, Japan. (4)Faculty of Agriculture, Hokkaido
University, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8589, Japan. (5)Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Hokkaido University, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-0812, Japan. Electronic
address: hiro@pharm.hokudai.ac.jp.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is caused by dopaminergic cell death in the substantia
nigra, leading to a reduced level of dopamine in the striatum. Oxidative stress
is one of the causes of PD. Since symptomatic PD therapies are used,
identification of compounds or proteins that inhibit oxidative stress-induced
neuronal cell death is necessary. DJ-1 is a causative gene product of familial PD
and plays a role in anti-oxidative stress reaction. We have identified various
DJ-1-binding compounds, including compound-23, that restored neuronal cell death 
and locomotion defects observed in neurotoxin-induced PD models. In this study,
wild-type and DJ-1-knockout mice were injected intraperitoneally with 1 mg/kg of 
compound-23 and then with 30 mg/kg of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) at 1 h after injection. Five 
days after administration, the effects of compound-23 on MPTP-induced locomotion 
deficits, on dopaminergic cell death and on brain dopamine levels were analyzed
by rotor rod tests, by staining cells with an anti-TH antibody and by an HPLC,
respectively. The results showed that compound-23 inhibited MPTP-induced
reduction of retention time on the rotor rod bar, neuronal cell death in the
substantia nigra and striatum and dopamine content in wild-type mice but not in
DJ-1-knockout mice, indicating a DJ-1-dependent effect of compound-23.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 25837927  [PubMed - in process]


213. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Apr;94(13):e649. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000649.

Dopamine transporter single-photon emission computerized tomography supports
diagnosis of akinetic crisis of parkinsonism and of neuroleptic malignant
syndrome.

Martino G(1), Capasso M, Nasuti M, Bonanni L, Onofrj M, Thomas A.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Radiology and Radiotherapy, Nuclear Medicine University
G. d'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara (GM, MN); Neurology Clinic, State Hospital (MC,
LB, MO, AT); and Department of Neuroscience and Imaging and Aging Research
Center, University G. d'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy (LB, MO, AT).

Akinetic crisis (AC) is akin to neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and is the
most severe and possibly lethal complication of parkinsonism. Diagnosis is today 
based only on clinical assessments yet is often marred by concomitant
precipitating factors. Our purpose is to evidence that AC and NMS can be reliably
evidenced by FP/CIT single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT)
performed during the crisis.Prospective cohort evaluation in 6 patients. In 5
patients, affected by Parkinson disease or Lewy body dementia, the crisis was
categorized as AC. One was diagnosed as having NMS because of exposure to
risperidone. In all FP/CIT, SPECT was performed in the acute phase. SPECT was
repeated 3 to 6 months after the acute event in 5 patients. Visual assessments
and semiquantitative evaluations of binding potentials (BPs) were used. To
exclude the interference of emergency treatments, FP/CIT BP was also evaluated in
4 patients currently treated with apomorphine.During AC or NMS, BP values in
caudate and putamen were reduced by 95% to 80%, to noise level with a nearly
complete loss of striatum dopamine transporter-binding, corresponding to the
"burst striatum" pattern. The follow-up re-evaluation in surviving patients
showed a recovery of values to the range expected for Parkinsonisms of same
disease duration. No binding effects of apomorphine were observed.By showing the 
outstanding binding reduction, presynaptic dopamine transporter ligand can
provide instrumental evidence of AC in Parkinsonism and NMS.

PMID: 25837755  [PubMed - in process]


214. Yonsei Med J. 2015 May 1;56(3):726-36. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2015.56.3.726.

A Network Analysis of ¹⁵O-H₂O PET Reveals Deep Brain Stimulation Effects on Brain
Network of Parkinson's Disease.

Park HJ(1), Park B(2), Kim HY(3), Oh MK(2), Kim JI(1), Yoon M(1), Lee JD(1),
Chang JW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.; BK21 PLUS Project for Medical Science, Yonsei University College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Neurosurgery, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (4)BK21 PLUS Project for Medical
Science, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.; Department of
Neurosurgery, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
jchang@yuhs.ac.

PURPOSE: As Parkinson's disease (PD) can be considered a network abnormality, the
effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) need to be investigated in the aspect of 
networks. This study aimed to examine how DBS of the bilateral subthalamic
nucleus (STN) affects the motor networks of patients with idiopathic PD during
motor performance and to show the feasibility of the network analysis using
cross-sectional positron emission tomography (PET) images in DBS studies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We obtained [¹⁵O]H₂O PET images from ten patients with PD 
during a sequential finger-to-thumb opposition task and during the resting state,
with DBS-On and DBS-Off at STN. To identify the alteration of motor networks in
PD and their changes due to STN-DBS, we applied independent component analysis
(ICA) to all the cross-sectional PET images. We analysed the strength of each
component according to DBS effects, task effects and interaction effects.
RESULTS: ICA blindly decomposed components of functionally associated distributed
clusters, which were comparable to the results of univariate statistical
parametric mapping. ICA further revealed that STN-DBS modifies usage-strengths of
components corresponding to the basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuits in PD
patients by increasing the hypoactive basal ganglia and by suppressing the
hyperactive cortical motor areas, ventrolateral thalamus and cerebellum.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that STN-DBS may affect not only the abnormal
local activity, but also alter brain networks in patients with PD. This study
also demonstrated the usefulness of ICA for cross-sectional PET data to reveal
network modifications due to DBS, which was not observable using the subtraction 
method.

PMCID: PMC4397443
PMID: 25837179  [PubMed - in process]


215. J Neural Transm. 2015 Apr 3. [Epub ahead of print]

Dance for PD: a preliminary investigation of effects on motor function and
quality of life among persons with Parkinson's disease (PD).

Westheimer O(1), McRae C, Henchcliffe C, Fesharaki A, Glazman S, Ene H,
Bodis-Wollner I.

Author information: 
(1)Brooklyn Parkinson Group, Brooklyn, NY, USA,
oliewestheimer@brooklynparkinsongroup.org.

In 2001, Dance for Parkinson's disease (DfPD(®)) classes for persons with
Parkinson's disease and care partners were developed by Brooklyn Parkinson Group 
and Mark Morris Dance Group. A previous assessment suggested that individuals
experience positive benefits from DfPD(®). The current preliminary uncontrolled
study investigated the effects of a dance intervention on several motor and
quality of life aspects of PD following 16 sessions (8 weeks; 20 h) taught by
professional dancers/teachers. A mixed methods design was used to determine the
effects of the class. Assessment instruments administered at baseline and
post-intervention included the Hoehn and Yahr, UPDRS (part III), Berg Balance
Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, and PDQ-39 and individual interviews after the 
last class. Hoehn and Yahr scores ranged from 1 to 4. UPDRS III total scores and 
sub scores of gait and tremor improved following the intervention (P < 0.05).
During interviews participants reported physical, emotional, and social benefits.
Despite the diversity of baseline measures post-class interview results were
consistently positive across the sample. Twelve of 14 subjects (mean age 66.2)
with idiopathic PD completed the sessions. After 4 years, four participants
regularly attended DfPD(®) classes. The low attrition rate and continued
attendance suggest notable adherence to the DfPD(®) class. The importance of the 
results is both clinical and conceptual, highlighting the value of using both
quantitative and qualitative data to evaluate the benefits of dance with PD.

PMID: 25836752  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


216. J Control Release. 2015 Mar 31;207:18-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.03.033.
[Epub ahead of print]

Exosomes as drug delivery vehicles for Parkinson's disease therapy.

Haney MJ(1), Klyachko NL(2), Zhao Y(1), Gupta R(1), Plotnikova EG(3), He Z(1),
Patel T(4), Piroyan A(1), Sokolsky M(1), Kabanov AV(2), Batrakova EV(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Eshelman
School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC,
USA. (2)Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Eshelman
School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC,
USA; Deparment of Chemical Enzymology, Faculty of Chemistry, M.V. Lomonosov
Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia. (3)Deparment of Chemical Enzymology,
Faculty of Chemistry, M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. (5)Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman
School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC,
USA; Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: batrakov@email.unc.edu.

Exosomes are naturally occurring nanosized vesicles that have attracted
considerable attention as drug delivery vehicles in the past few years. Exosomes 
are comprised of natural lipid bilayers with the abundance of adhesive proteins
that readily interact with cellular membranes. We posit that exosomes secreted by
monocytes and macrophages can provide an unprecedented opportunity to avoid
entrapment in mononuclear phagocytes (as a part of the host immune system), and
at the same time enhance delivery of incorporated drugs to target cells
ultimately increasing drug therapeutic efficacy. In light of this, we developed a
new exosomal-based delivery system for a potent antioxidant, catalase, to treat
Parkinson's disease (PD). Catalase was loaded into exosomes ex vivo using
different methods: the incubation at room temperature, permeabilization with
saponin, freeze-thaw cycles, sonication, or extrusion. The size of the obtained
catalase-loaded exosomes (exoCAT) was in the range of 100-200nm. A reformation of
exosomes upon sonication and extrusion, or permeabilization with saponin resulted
in high loading efficiency, sustained release, and catalase preservation against 
proteases degradation. Exosomes were readily taken up by neuronal cells in vitro.
A considerable amount of exosomes was detected in PD mouse brain following
intranasal administration. ExoCAT provided significant neuroprotective effects in
in vitro and in vivo models of PD. Overall, exosome-based catalase formulations
have a potential to be a versatile strategy to treat inflammatory and
neurodegenerative disorders.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25836593  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


217. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Jun;78:172-95. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.02.031. Epub 2015 Mar 
31.

Progressive dopaminergic alterations and mitochondrial abnormalities in LRRK2
G2019S knock-in mice.

Yue M(1), Hinkle KM(1), Davies P(2), Trushina E(3), Fiesel FC(1), Christenson
TA(4), Schroeder AS(3), Zhang L(3), Bowles E(1), Behrouz B(1), Lincoln SJ(1),
Beevers JE(1), Milnerwood AJ(5), Kurti A(1), McLean PJ(6), Fryer JD(6), Springer 
W(6), Dickson DW(6), Farrer MJ(5), Melrose HL(7).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville FL 32224, USA.
(2)MRC Phosphorylation Unit, University of Dundee, DD1 4HN, Scotland, UK.
(3)Dept. of Neurology, Dept. of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic Rochester, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. (4)Mayo Clinic Electron Microscopy
Core Facility, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. (5)Center for Applied Neurogenetics,
University of British Columbia, V6T 2B5, Canada. (6)Dept. of Neuroscience, Mayo
Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville FL 32224, USA; Neurobiology of Disease Graduate
Program, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. (7)Dept. of 
Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville FL 32224, USA; Neurobiology 
of Disease Graduate Program, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN,
55905, USA. Electronic address: melrose.heather@mayo.edu.

Mutations in the LRRK2 gene represent the most common genetic cause of late onset
Parkinson's disease. The physiological and pathological roles of LRRK2 are yet to
be fully determined but evidence points towards LRRK2 mutations causing a gain in
kinase function, impacting on neuronal maintenance, vesicular dynamics and
neurotransmitter release. To explore the role of physiological levels of mutant
LRRK2, we created knock-in (KI) mice harboring the most common LRRK2 mutation
G2019S in their own genome. We have performed comprehensive dopaminergic,
behavioral and neuropathological analyses in this model up to 24months of age. We
find elevated kinase activity in the brain of both heterozygous and homozygous
mice. Although normal at 6months, by 12months of age, basal and pharmacologically
induced extracellular release of dopamine is impaired in both heterozygous and
homozygous mice, corroborating previous findings in transgenic models
over-expressing mutant LRRK2. Via in vivo microdialysis measurement of basal and 
drug-evoked extracellular release of dopamine and its metabolites, our findings
indicate that exocytotic release from the vesicular pool is impaired.
Furthermore, profound mitochondrial abnormalities are evident in the striatum of 
older homozygous G2019S KI mice, which are consistent with mitochondrial fission 
arrest. We anticipate that this G2019S mouse line will be a useful pre-clinical
model for further evaluation of early mechanistic events in LRRK2 pathogenesis
and for second-hit approaches to model disease progression.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25836420  [PubMed - in process]


218. Trends Microbiol. 2015 May;23(5):257-266. doi: 10.1016/j.tim.2015.03.003. Epub
2015 Mar 30.

Signaling and sensory adaptation in Escherichia coli chemoreceptors: 2015 update.

Parkinson JS(1), Hazelbauer GL(2), Falke JJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, 257 South 1400 East, Salt Lake
City, UT 84112, USA. Electronic address: parkinson@biology.utah.edu.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Missouri Columbia, Columbia, MO
65211, USA. (3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Colorado, 
Boulder, CO 80309, USA.

Motile Escherichia coli cells track gradients of attractant and repellent
chemicals in their environment with transmembrane chemoreceptor proteins. These
receptors operate in cooperative arrays to produce large changes in the activity 
of a signaling kinase, CheA, in response to small changes in chemoeffector
concentration. Recent research has provided a much deeper understanding of the
structure and function of core receptor signaling complexes and the architecture 
of higher-order receptor arrays, which, in turn, has led to new insights into the
molecular signaling mechanisms of chemoreceptor networks. Current evidence
supports a new view of receptor signaling in which stimulus information travels
within receptor molecules through shifts in the dynamic properties of adjoining
structural elements rather than through a few discrete conformational states.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4417406 [Available on 2016-05-01]
PMID: 25834953  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


219. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar 28;21(12):3509-18. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i12.3509.

Effect of entacapone on colon motility and ion transport in a rat model of
Parkinson's disease.

Li LS(1), Liu CZ(1), Xu JD(1), Zheng LF(1), Feng XY(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhu JX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Li-Sheng Li, Chen-Zhe Liu, Jing-Dong Xu, Li-Fei Zheng, Xiao-Yan Feng, Yue
Zhang, Jin-Xia Zhu, Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic
Medical Sciences, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100069, China.

AIM: To study the effects of entacapone, a catechol-O-methyltransferase
inhibitor, on colon motility and electrolyte transport in Parkinson's disease
(PD) rats.
METHODS: Distribution and expression of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) were 
measured by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting methods. The colonic smooth
muscle motility was examined in vitro by means of a muscle motility recording
device. The mucosal electrolyte transport of PD rats was examined by using a
short-circuit current (ISC ) technique and scanning ion-selective electrode
technique (SIET). Intracellular detection of cAMP and cGMP was accomplished by
radioimmunoassay testing.
RESULTS: COMT was expressed in the colons of both normal and PD rats, mainly on
the apical membranes of villi and crypts in the colon. Compared to normal
controls, PD rats expressed less COMT. The COMT inhibitor entacapone inhibited
contraction of the PD rat longitudinal muscle in a dose-dependent manner. The β2 
adrenoceptor antagonist ICI-118,551 blocked this inhibitory effect by
approximately 67% (P < 0.01). Entacapone increased mucosal ISC in the colon of
rats with PD. This induction was significantly inhibited by apical application of
Cl(-) channel blocker diphenylamine-2, 2'-dicarboxylic acid, basolateral
application of Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-)co-transporter antagonist bumetanide, elimination
of Cl(-) from the extracellular fluid, as well as pretreatment using adenylate
cyclase inhibitor MDL12330A. As an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthetase,
indomethacin can inhibit entacapone-induced ISC by 45% (P < 0.01). When SIET was 
applied to measure Cl(-) flux changes, this provided similar results. Entacapone 
significantly increased intracellular cAMP content in the colonic mucosa, which
was greatly inhibited by indomethacin.
CONCLUSION: COMT expression exists in rat colons. The β2 adrenoceptor is involved
in the entacapone-induced inhibition of colon motility. Entacapone induces
cAMP-dependent Cl(-) secretion in the PD rat.

PMCID: PMC4375572
PMID: 25834315  [PubMed - in process]


220. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 1;35(13):5271-83. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0650-14.2015.

Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 modulates neuroinflammation and neurotoxicity in
models of human immunodeficiency virus 1-associated neurocognitive disorders.

Puccini JM(1), Marker DF(2), Fitzgerald T(3), Barbieri J(2), Kim CS(2),
Miller-Rhodes P(2), Lu SM(2), Dewhurst S(4), Gelbard HA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Development and Disease and
jenna_puccini@urmc.rochester.edu. (2)Center for Neural Development and Disease
and. (3)Graduate Program in Medical Illustration, Rochester Institute of
Technology, Rochester, New York 14623. (4)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642, and.

Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is the single most common genetic cause of
both familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD), both of which share
pathogenetic and neurologic similarities with human immunodeficiency virus 1
(HIV-1)-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). Pathologic LRRK2 activity may
also contribute to neuroinflammation, because microglia lacking LRRK2 exposed to 
proinflammatory stimuli have attenuated responses. Because microglial activation 
is a hallmark of HIV-1 neuropathology, we have investigated the role of LRRK2
activation using in vitro and in vivo models of HAND. We hypothesize that LRRK2
is a key modulator of microglial inflammatory responses, which play a pathogenic 
role in both HAND and PD, and that these responses may cause or exacerbate
neuronal damage in these diseases. The HIV-1 Tat protein is a potent neurotoxin
produced during HAND that induces activation of primary microglia in culture and 
long-lasting neuroinflammation and neurotoxicity when injected into the CNS of
mice. We found that LRRK2 inhibition attenuates Tat-induced pS935-LRRK2
expression, proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine expression, and phosphorylated
p38 and Jun N-terminal kinase signaling in primary microglia. In our murine
model, cortical Tat injection in LRRK2 knock-out (KO) mice results in
significantly diminished neuronal damage, as assessed by microtubule-associated
protein 2 (MAP2), class III β-tubulin TUJ1, synapsin-1, VGluT, and cleaved
caspase-3 immunostaining. Furthermore, Tat-injected LRRK2 KO animals have
decreased infiltration of peripheral neutrophils, and the morphology of microglia
from these mice were similar to that of vehicle-injected controls. We conclude
that pathologic activation of LRRK2 regulates a significant component of the
neuroinflammation associated with HAND.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/355271-13$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4381000 [Available on 2015-10-01]
PMID: 25834052  [PubMed - in process]


221. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 1;35(13):5221-32. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4650-14.2015.

Definition of a Molecular Pathway Mediating α-Synuclein Neurotoxicity.

Burré J(1), Sharma M(2), Südhof TC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Molecular and Cellular Physiology and Appel Institute for
Alzheimer's Disease Research, Brain and Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell
Medical College, New York, New York 10021 jab2058@med.cornell.edu
tcs1@stanford.edu. (2)Departments of Molecular and Cellular Physiology and Appel 
Institute for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Brain and Mind Research Institute,
Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10021. (3)Departments of
Molecular and Cellular Physiology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University Medical School, Stanford, California 94305, and
jab2058@med.cornell.edu tcs1@stanford.edu.

α-Synuclein physiologically chaperones SNARE-complex assembly at the synapse but 
pathologically misfolds into neurotoxic aggregates that are characteristic for
neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, and that may spread
from one neuron to the next throughout the brain during Parkinson's disease
pathogenesis. In normal nerve terminals, α-synuclein is present in an equilibrium
between a cytosolic form that is natively unfolded and monomeric and a
membrane-bound form that is composed of an α-helical multimeric species that
chaperones SNARE-complex assembly. Although the neurotoxicity of α-synuclein is
well established, the relationship between the native conformations of
α-synuclein and its pathological aggregation remain incompletely understood; most
importantly, it is unclear whether α-synuclein aggregation originates from its
monomeric cytosolic or oligomeric membrane-bound form. Here, we address this
question by introducing into α-synuclein point mutations that block membrane
binding and by then assessing the effect of blocking membrane binding on
α-synuclein aggregation and neurotoxicity. We show that membrane binding inhibits
α-synuclein aggregation; conversely, blocking membrane binding enhances
α-synuclein aggregation. Stereotactic viral expression of wild-type and mutant
α-synuclein in the substantia nigra of mice demonstrated that blocking
α-synuclein membrane binding significantly enhanced its neurotoxicity in vivo.
Our data delineate a folding pathway for α-synuclein that ranges from a
physiological multimeric, α-helical, and membrane-bound species that acts as a
SNARE-complex chaperone over a monomeric, natively unfolded form to an
amyloid-like aggregate that is neurotoxic in vivo.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/355221-12$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4380997 [Available on 2015-10-01]
PMID: 25834048  [PubMed - in process]


222. Med J Aust. 2015 Apr 6;202(6):283-4.

New and emerging treatments for Parkinson disease.

Fung VS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Westmead Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia. vscfung@ozemail.com.au.

PMID: 25832138  [PubMed - in process]


223. Neuromodulation. 2015 Apr 1. doi: 10.1111/ner.12288. [Epub ahead of print]

Early Use of 60 Hz Frequency Subthalamic Stimulation in Parkinson's Disease: A
Case Series and Review.

Ramdhani RA(1), Patel A, Swope D, Kopell BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Division of Movement Disorders, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Department of Neurosurgery, Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is effective in treating the segmental
symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) as well as axial symptoms that are levodopa 
responsive. PD patients on chronic DBS who develop axial symptoms and gait
disturbances several years later oftentimes are refractory to high frequency
stimulation (HFS). Several studies report benefit produced by low frequency
subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation in such patients, though the sustainability
of the effects has been mixed.
OBJECTIVE: To report the clinical outcomes of a series of patients with
Parkinson's disease and levodopa responsive axial and gait disturbances who were 
switched to 60 Hz stimulation within one year of their DBS surgery.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 5 patients, whose severe pre-DBS, levodopa
responsive gait disorders worsened on HFS STN-DBS and were subsequently switched 
to 60 Hz stimulation within 1 year of their surgery.
RESULTS: The median age of this cohort was 66 years with median disease duration 
of 14 years. Four of 5 patients' experienced acute worsening of their axial and
gait UPDRS III scores on HFS. All patients' gait disorder improved with 60 Hz
along with amelioration of their segmental symptoms and reduction of their
levodopa induced dyskinesia. The median time on HFS prior to switching to 60 Hz
was two months. Stimulation through the ventral contacts was utilized in all
patients with relatively modest changes achieved in levodopa equivalent daily
dose.
CONCLUSION: This case series demonstrates the clinical efficacy of utilizing low 
frequency (60 Hz) STN stimulation early in the DBS programming course in more
advanced PD patients with levodopa responsive gait disturbance and freezing of
gait. Activation of a broader stimulation field likely contributed to both axial 
and segmental symptom improvement while possibly aiding in the reduction of
dyskinesia.

© 2015 International Neuromodulation Society.

PMID: 25833008  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


224. Oman Med J. 2015 Jan;30(1):3-10. doi: 10.5001/omj.2015.02.

Excessive daytime sleepiness and unintended sleep episodes associated with
Parkinson's disease.

Salawu F(1), Olokoba A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Federal Medical Centre, Yola, Nigeria ; (2)Department 
of General Internal Medicine, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, Ilorin.
Nigeria.

This article looks at the issues of excessive daytime sleepiness and unintended
sleep episodes in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and explores the reasons
why patients might suffer from these symptoms, and what steps could be taken to
manage them. During the last decade, understanding of sleep/wake regulation has
increased. Several brainstem nuclei and their communication pathways in the
ascending arousing system through the hypothalamus and thalamus to the cortex
play key roles in sleep disorders. Insomnia is the most common sleep disorder in 
PD patients, and excessive daytime sleepiness is also common. Excessive daytime
sleepiness affects up to 50% of PD patients and a growing body of research has
established this sleep disturbance as a marker of preclinical and premotor PD. It
is a frequent and highly persistent feature in PD, with multifactorial underlying
pathophysiology. Both age and disease-related disturbances of sleep-wake
regulation contribute to hypersomnia in PD. Treatment with dopamine agonists also
contribute to excessive daytime sleepiness. Effective management of sleep
disturbances and excessive daytime sleepiness can greatly improve the quality of 
life for patients with PD.

PMCID: PMC4371466
PMID: 25829994  [PubMed]


225. Pharmacol Res. 2015 Mar 28;97:16-26. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2015.03.010. [Epub ahead
of print]

Glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) signaling: Implications for Parkinson's 
disease.

Golpich M(1), Amini E(1), Hemmati F(1), Ibrahim NM(1), Rahmani B(2), Mohamed
Z(3), Raymond AA(1), Dargahi L(4), Ghasemi R(5), Ahmadiani A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre, Cheras,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (2)Neuroscience Research Center, Shahid Beheshti
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Department of Pharmacology,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)NeuroBiology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran. (5)Neurophysiology Research Center and Department of Physiology,
Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran. Electronic address: Rghasemi60@sbmu.ac.ir. (6)Neuroscience Research Center,
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of
Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia. Electronic address: aahmadiani@yahoo.com.

Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) dysregulation plays an important role in the
pathogenesis of numerous disorders, affecting the central nervous system (CNS)
encompassing both neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative diseases. Several lines
of evidence have illustrated a key role of the GSK-3 and its cellular and
molecular signaling cascades in the control of neuroinflammation. Glycogen
synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK-3β), one of the GSK-3 isomers, plays a major role in 
neuronal apoptosis and its inhibition decreases expression of alpha-Synuclein
(α-Synuclein), which make this kinase an attractive therapeutic target for
neurodegenerative disorders. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic
neurodegenerative movement disorder characterized by the progressive and massive 
loss of dopaminergic neurons by neuronal apoptosis in the substantia nigra pars
compacta and depletion of dopamine in the striatum, which lead to pathological
and clinical abnormalities. Thus, understanding the role of GSK-3β in PD will
enhance our knowledge of the basic mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of this
disorder and facilitate the identification of new therapeutic avenues. In recent 
years, GSK-3β has been shown to play essential roles in modulating a variety of
cellular functions, which have prompted efforts to develop GSK-3β inhibitors as
therapeutics. In this review, we summarize GSK-3 signaling pathways and its
association with neuroinflammation. Moreover, we highlight the interaction
between GSK-3β and several cellular processes involved in the pathogenesis of PD,
including the accumulation of α-Synuclein aggregates, oxidative stress and
mitochondrial dysfunction. Finally, we discuss about GSK-3β inhibitors as a
potential therapeutic strategy in PD.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25829335  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


226. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 19. pii: S1353-8020(15)00110-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.015. [Epub ahead of print]

Zolpidem withdrawal status dystonicus in the patient with advanced Parkinson's
disease.

Kojović M(1), Gregorič Kramberger M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Zaloska 2, 1000 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: maja.kojovic@kclj.si. (2)Department of
Neurology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Zaloska 2, 1000 Ljubljana,
Slovenia. Electronic address: milica.kramberger@gmail.com.

PMID: 25829071  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


227. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 20. pii: S1353-8020(15)00101-7. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Decreased vesicular storage and aldehyde dehydrogenase activity in multiple
system atrophy.

Goldstein DS(1), Sullivan P(2), Holmes C(2), Kopin IJ(2), Sharabi Y(3), Mash
DC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurocardiology Section, Clinical Neurosciences Program, Division of 
Intramural Research, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke,
Bethesda, MD, USA. Electronic address: goldsteind@ninds.nih.gov. (2)Clinical
Neurocardiology Section, Clinical Neurosciences Program, Division of Intramural
Research, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Bethesda, MD, 
USA. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, Chaim Sheba Medical Center,
Tel-HaShomer, and Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.
(4)Department of Neurology, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami,
Miami, FL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson disease (PD) and multiple system atrophy (MSA) share some
neuropathologic features (nigrostriatal dopaminergic lesion, alpha-synuclein
deposition) but not others (Lewy bodies in PD, glial cytoplasmic inclusions in
MSA). In PD evidence has accrued for a vesicular storage defect and decreased
aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity in residual dopaminergic terminals,
resulting in accumulation of the toxic dopamine (DA) metabolite
3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL). In this study we asked whether MSA
entails a similar abnormal neurochemical pattern.
METHODS: DA and its main neuronal metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid
(DOPAC), norepinephrine (NE) and its main neuronal metabolite
3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), the catecholamine precursor DOPA, and DOPAL
were measured in striatal and frontal cortical tissue from patients with
pathologically proven end-stage MSA (N = 15), sporadic PD (N = 17), and control
subjects (N = 18).
RESULTS: Compared to the control group, the MSA and PD groups had similarly
decreased putamen DA (by 96% and 93%, p < 0.0001), DOPAC (97% and 95%,
p < 0.0001), NE (91% and 74%, p < 0.0001), and DHPG (81% and 74%, p < 0.0001). In
the MSA and PD groups, ratios of DOPAL:DA were 2.3 and 3.5 times control and
DHPG:NE 3.1 and 2.6 times control, while DOPAC:DOPAL ratios were decreased by 61%
and 74%. In both diseases cortical NE and DHPG were decreased, while DA and DOPAC
were not.
CONCLUSIONS: MSA and PD entail a catecholamine metabolic profile indicating
impaired vesicular storage, decreased ALDH activity, and DOPAL buildup, which
might be part of a common pathway in catecholamine neuronal death. Targeting this
pathway by interfering with catecholaldehyde production or effects constitutes a 
novel treatment approach.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25829070  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


228. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 20. pii: S1353-8020(15)00112-1. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.017. [Epub ahead of print]

Hereditary geniospasm in a Korean family.

Ehm GH(1), Kim HJ(2), Jeon BS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Myongji Hospital, Goyang-si, Kyongki-do, Republic of 
Korea. (2)Department of Neurology and Movement Disorder Center, Parkinson Study
Group, and Neuroscience Research Institute, College of Medicine, Seoul National
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Neurology and Movement
Disorder Center, Parkinson Study Group, and Neuroscience Research Institute,
College of Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: brain@snu.ac.kr.

PMID: 25829069  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


229. Pract Neurol. 2015 Mar 31. pii: practneurol-2014-001038. doi:
10.1136/practneurol-2014-001038. [Epub ahead of print]

Impulse control disorder manifesting as hidden sexual self-injury.

Brady S(1), Duffey P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, York Hospital, York, UK.

PMID: 25828732  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


230. Heart Rhythm. 2015 Mar 28. pii: S1547-5271(15)00346-X. doi:
10.1016/j.hrthm.2015.03.047. [Epub ahead of print]

50 Is the New 70: Short ventriculoatrial times are common in children with
atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia.

Ceresnak SR(1), Doan LN(2), Motonaga KS(3), Avasarala K(3), Trela A(3), Reddy
C(3), Dubin AM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Lucille Packard Children's Hospital-Stanford University, Pediatric Cardiology,
Pediatric Electrophysiology-Department of Pediatrics, Palo Alto, California.
Electronic address: ceresnak@yahoo.com. (2)Lucille Packard Children's
Hospital-Stanford University, Stanford Center for Clinical & Translational
Research & Education and Stanford Child Health Research Institute Spectrum Child 
Health, Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Palo Alto, California. (3)Lucille
Packard Children's Hospital-Stanford University, Pediatric Cardiology, Pediatric 
Electrophysiology-Department of Pediatrics, Palo Alto, California.

BACKGROUND: One of the basic electrophysiological principles of atrioventricular 
reciprocating tachycardia (AVRT) is that ventriculoatrial (VA) times during
tachycardia are >70 ms. We hypothesized, however, that children may commonly have
VA times <70 ms in AVRT.
OBJECTIVE: This study sought to determine the incidence and characteristics
associated with short-VA AVRT in children.
METHODS: A retrospective single-center review of children with AVRT from 2000 to 
2014 was performed. All patients ≤18 years of age with AVRT at electrophysiology 
study were included. Patients with persistent junctional reciprocating
tachycardia, atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia, and tachycardia not
unequivocally proven to be AVRT were excluded. VA time was defined as the time
between earliest ventricular activation and earliest atrial activation in any
lead and was confirmed by 2 electrophysiologists. Patients with VA times <70 ms
(SHORT-VA) and those with standard VA times ≥70 ms (STD-VA) were compared.
Logistic regression analysis identified characteristics of SHORT-VA patients.
RESULTS: A total of 495 patients with AVRT were included (mean age 11.7 ± 4.1
years). There were 265 patients (54%) with concealed accessory pathways (APs) and
230 (46%) with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. AP location was left-sided in 301 
patients (61%) and right-sided in 194 (39%). The mean VA time in AVRT was 100 ±
33 ms. A total of 63 patients (13%) had VA times <70 ms (SHORT-VA). The shortest 
VA time during AVRT was 50 ms. There was no difference in age, AV nodal block
cycle, or body surface area between SHORT-VA and STD-VA patients, but SHORT-VA
patients had lower weight (43 ± 17 vs 51 ± 23 kg, P = .02), lower AV nodal
effective refractory period (AVNERP; 269 ± 50 vs 245 ± 52 ms, P < .01), and more 
left-sided APs (50 [79%] vs 251 [58%]; P < .01]. On multivariate logistic
regression, factors associated with SHORT-VA included left-sided AP (odds ratio
[OR] 5.79, confidence interval [CI] 2.21-15.1, P < .01), shorter AVNERP (OR 0.99,
CI 0.98-0.99, P < .01), and lower weight (OR 0.97, CI 0.95-0.99, P < .01).
CONCLUSIONS: Children with AVRT can frequently have VA times <70 ms, with 50 ms
being the shortest VA time. This finding debunks the classic electrophysiology
principle that VA times in AVRT must be >70 ms. SHORT-VA AVRT was more common in 
children with left-sided APs.

Copyright © 2015 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25828598  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


231. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 May 8;460(3):772-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.03.105. Epub 2015 Mar 28.

p53 signalling mediates acupuncture-induced neuroprotection in Parkinson's
disease.

Park JY(1), Choi H(2), Baek S(2), Jang J(3), Lee A(3), Jeon S(4), Kim J(5), Park 
HJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Studies of Translational Acupuncture Research (STAR), Acupuncture & Meridian
Science Research Center (AMSRC), Kyung Hee University, 26 Kyungheedae-ro,
Dongdaemoon-gu, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Biomedical
Engineering, Dongguk University, 3-ga, Pil-dong, Chung-gu, Seoul 100-715,
Republic of Korea. (3)Studies of Translational Acupuncture Research (STAR),
Acupuncture & Meridian Science Research Center (AMSRC), Kyung Hee University, 26 
Kyungheedae-ro, Dongdaemoon-gu, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea; Department of
Korean Medical Science, Graduate School of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University,
26 Kyungheedae-ro, Dongdaemoon-gu, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea. (4)Dongguk
University Research Institute of Biotechnology, 3-ga, Pil-dong, Chung-gu, Seoul
100-715, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: Jsong0304@hanmail.net.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Dongguk University, 3-ga, Pil-dong,
Chung-gu, Seoul 100-715, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: jk2316@gmail.com.
(6)Studies of Translational Acupuncture Research (STAR), Acupuncture & Meridian
Science Research Center (AMSRC), Kyung Hee University, 26 Kyungheedae-ro,
Dongdaemoon-gu, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea; Department of Korean Medical
Science, Graduate School of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University, 26
Kyungheedae-ro, Dongdaemoon-gu, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: acufind@khu.ac.kr.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder associated
with a selective loss of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra of the
midbrain. Recently, it has been demonstrated that acupuncture treatment has
protective effects in PD. However, to date, the molecular mechanisms underlying
acupuncture's effect on DA neuronal protection are largely unknown. In this
study, we report that p53 signalling mediates the protective effects of
acupuncture treatment in a mouse model of PD. We found that the acupuncture
treatment in the mouse PD model results in significant recovery to the normal in 
the context of behaviour and molecular signatures. We found that the gene network
associated with p53 signalling is closely involved in the protective effects of
acupuncture treatment in PD. Consistent with this idea, we demonstrated that
specific knockout of the p53 gene in the midbrain DA neurons abrogates the
acupuncture induced protective effects in the mouse model of PD. Thus, these data
suggest that p53 signalling mediates the protective effects of acupuncture
treatment in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25827815  [PubMed - in process]


232. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 May 5;112(18):E2268. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1503105112.
Epub 2015 Mar 30.

HTRA2 p.G399S in Parkinson disease, essential tremor, and tremulous cervical
dystonia.

Tzoulis C(1), Zayats T(2), Knappskog PM(3), Müller B(1), Larsen JP(4), Tysnes
OB(1), Bindoff LA(1), Johansson S(3), Haugarvoll K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Haukeland University Hospital, 5021 Bergen, Norway;
Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, 5021 Bergen, Norway; K. G.
Jebsen Centre for Neuropsychiatric Disorders. (2)Departments of Biomedicine and. 
(3)Clinical Science, University of Bergen, 5021 Bergen, Norway; Center for
Medical Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Haukeland University Hospital, 5021
Bergen, Norway; and. (4)The Norwegian Center for Movement Disorders, Stavanger
University Hospital, 4068 Stavanger, Norway. (5)Department of Neurology,
Haukeland University Hospital, 5021 Bergen, Norway; Department of Clinical
Medicine, University of Bergen, 5021 Bergen, Norway; K. G. Jebsen Centre for
Neuropsychiatric Disorders, kristoffer.haugarvoll@med.uib.no.

PMID: 25825781  [PubMed - in process]


233. Physiol Rep. 2015 Mar;3(3). pii: e12361. doi: 10.14814/phy2.12361.

Impaired smooth-pursuit in Parkinson's disease: normal cue-information memory,
but dysfunction of extra-retinal mechanisms for pursuit preparation and
execution.

Fukushima K(1), Ito N(2), Barnes GR(3), Onishi S(2), Kobayashi N(2), Takei H(4), 
Olley PM(2), Chiba S(2), Inoue K(2), Warabi T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Sapporo Yamanoue Hospital, Sapporo, Japan
kf001@pop.sys.hokudai.ac.jp. (2)Department of Neurology, Sapporo Yamanoue
Hospital, Sapporo, Japan. (3)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. (4)Department of Radiology, Sapporo Yamanoue Hospital, Sapporo,
Japan.

While retinal image motion is the primary input for smooth-pursuit, its
efficiency depends on cognitive processes including prediction. Reports are
conflicting on impaired prediction during pursuit in Parkinson's disease. By
separating two major components of prediction (image motion direction memory and 
movement preparation) using a memory-based pursuit task, and by comparing
tracking eye movements with those during a simple ramp-pursuit task that did not 
require visual memory, we examined smooth-pursuit in 25 patients with Parkinson's
disease and compared the results with 14 age-matched controls. In the
memory-based pursuit task, cue 1 indicated visual motion direction, whereas cue 2
instructed the subjects to prepare to pursue or not to pursue. Based on the
cue-information memory, subjects were asked to pursue the correct spot from two
oppositely moving spots or not to pursue. In 24/25 patients, the cue-information 
memory was normal, but movement preparation and execution were impaired.
Specifically, unlike controls, most of the patients (18/24 = 75%) lacked initial 
pursuit during the memory task and started tracking the correct spot by saccades.
Conversely, during simple ramp-pursuit, most patients (83%) exhibited initial
pursuit. Popping-out of the correct spot motion during memory-based pursuit was
ineffective for enhancing initial pursuit. The results were similar irrespective 
of levodopa/dopamine agonist medication. Our results indicate that the
extra-retinal mechanisms of most patients are dysfunctional in initiating
memory-based (not simple ramp) pursuit. A dysfunctional pursuit loop between
frontal eye fields (FEF) and basal ganglia may contribute to the impairment of
extra-retinal mechanisms, resulting in deficient pursuit commands from the FEF to
brainstem.

© 2015 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on
behalf of the American Physiological Society and The Physiological Society.

PMCID: PMC4393177
PMID: 25825544  [PubMed]


234. Neurology. 2015 Mar 31;84(13):e98-9. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001456.

Changes in cognitive abilities after deep brain stimulation for Parkinson
disease.

Tröster AI, Massano J.

PMID: 25825472  [PubMed - in process]


235. Neurology. 2015 Mar 31;84(13):1386-7. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001458.

Naltrexone for impulse control disorders in Parkinson disease: A
placebo-controlled study.

Galduróz JC, Ramos AC, Santos-Galduróz RF(1), Liang JW(2), Shanker VL(2), Groves 
M(2), Weintraub D, Papay K, Xie SX(3).

Author information: 
(1)Sao Paulo, Brazil. (2)New York. (3)Philadelphia.

PMID: 25825466  [PubMed - in process]


236. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 18. pii: S1353-8020(15)00107-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.012. [Epub ahead of print]

MRI evaluation of asymmetry of nigrostriatal damage in the early stage of
early-onset Parkinson's disease.

Wang J(1), Yang QX(2), Sun X(3), Vesek J(3), Mosher Z(3), Vasavada M(3), Chu
J(3), Kanekar S(3), Shivkumar V(4), Venkiteswaran K(4), Subramanian T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine,
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA. Electronic address:
jxw73@psu.edu. (2)Department of Radiology, Pennsylvania State University College 
of Medicine, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA; Department of
Neurosurgery, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine, Milton S.
Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA. (3)Department of Radiology,
Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine, Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA, USA. (4)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania State
University College of Medicine, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA,
USA. (5)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania State University College of
Medicine, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA; Department of
Neural & Behavioral Sciences, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine, 
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The motor symptoms and signs of early-onset idiopathic Parkinson's 
disease (PD) in Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) stage-1 are generally unilateral. We
hypothesized that there would be detectable differences in the quantitative MRI
parameters in these PD patients between the hemispheres contralateral to the
clinically symptomatic and non-symptomatic body side.
METHODS: We tested this hypothesis by comparing transverse relaxation rates and
diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) parameters in the substantia nigra and putamen
between the two hemispheres contralateral to the symptomatic and non-symptomatic 
side in H&Y stage-1 PD patients who had onset of symptoms between ages of 40-59
years.
RESULTS: There were quantifiable hemispheric asymmetries in transverse relaxation
rates in the substantia nigra, as well as fractional anisotropy and mean
diffusivity in the putamen in early PD, which correlated with the unilaterality
of motor symptoms as evaluated using the motor portion of the Unified Parkinson's
Disease Rating Scale.
CONCLUSION: Transverse relaxation mapping and DTI demonstrated significant
differences between the symptomatic and non-symptomatic hemispheres at the early 
stage of early-onset PD. These findings support the hypothesis of asymmetric
neurodegeneration in the bilateral nigrostriatal pathways in the early stage of
the disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25825242  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


237. J Neurosci Res. 2015 Mar 30. doi: 10.1002/jnr.23592. [Epub ahead of print]

Partial depletion of striatal dopamine enhances penetrance of cognitive deficits 
in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Melief EJ(1), Cudaback E, Jorstad NL, Sherfield E, Postupna N, Wilson A, Darvas
M, Montine KS, Keene CD, Montine TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.

Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are recognized to coexist on a
spectrum of neurodegeneration, and it has been proposed that molecular
interactions among pathogenic proteins are a basis for the overlap between these 
two diseases. We instead hypothesized that degeneration of the nigrostriatal
dopaminergic system enhances the clinical penetrance of early-stage AD. To
determine the effect of striatal dopamine (DA) on the pathological effects in an 
experimental model of AD, APPSWE /PS1ΔE9 mice received striatal injections of the
neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA). Animals were tested in a Barnes maze
protocol and in a water T-maze protocol at different ages to determine the onset 
of cognitive impairment. APPSWE /PS1ΔE9 mice that received 6OHDA injections
showed significant impairment in Barnes maze performance at an earlier age than
controls. Additionally, at 12 months of age, APPswe /PS1ΔE9 + 6OHDA mice
demonstrated worse behavioral flexibility than other groups in a task-switch
phase of the water T-maze. To determine the neuroprotective effects of
dopaminergic neurotransmission against amyloid-β42 (Aβ42 ) toxicity, neuronal
branch order and dendrite length were quantified in primary medium spiny neuron
(MSN) cultures pretreated with increasing doses of the D1 and D2 receptor
agonists before being exposed to oligomerized Aβ42 . Although there were no
differences in Aβ peptide levels or plaque burden among the groups, in murine MSN
culture dopaminergic agonists prevented a toxic response to Aβ42. Depletion of DA
in the striatum exacerbated the cognitive impairment seen in a mouse model of
early-stage AD; this may be due to a protective effect of dopaminergic
innervation against Aβ striatal neurotoxicity. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25824456  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


238. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 May 8;460(3):799-805. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.03.109. Epub 2015 Mar 27.

Resolvin D2 recovers neural injury by suppressing inflammatory mediators
expression in lipopolysaccharide-induced Parkinson's disease rat model.

Tian Y(1), Zhang Y(2), Zhang R(3), Qiao S(4), Fan J(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Food and Drug Vocational College, Guangzhou
510520, PR China. Electronic address: xukang316004@126.com. (2)School of
Pharmacy, Guangdong Food and Drug Vocational College, Guangzhou 510520, PR China;
Neuroscience Care Unit, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Number 88, Jiefang Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009,
PR China. Electronic address: zhangying310009@126.com. (3)Department of
Geriatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang
University, Number 88, Jiefang Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009, PR China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Zhejiang Hospital, Number 12, Lingyin Road, Xihu
District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009, PR China. (5)Neuroscience Care Unit, The
Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou,
Number 88, Jiefang Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009, PR China.

Activation of microglial cells have been treated as the main role in the
pathogenesis of neuropathic inflammation and neurodegenerative disease, including
Parkinson's disease (PD), prion disease and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Resolvin D2
(RvD2) is derived from omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid and performs potent
anti-inflammatory and pro-resolution effects. Here we investigated the effects of
intrathecal injection of RvD2 for substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) in vivo
and primary microglia in vitro experiment on pro-inflammatory cytokine expression
and NF-κB activation in Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PD rat model. The total 
of 30 days experimental period were used for the rats' experiment, the
LPS-induced inflammation in SNpc increase the expression of NO, iNOS, TNF-α,
IL-1, IL-18, IL-6, IL-1β, ROS production, the translocation of NF-κB p65, IκBα,
and IKKβ expression in glial cells. After injection of RvD2, the treatment
prevented development of behavioral defects and TLR4/NF-κB pathway activation.
Therefore, we demonstrated a novel role of RvD2 in treatment of rat PD model and 
LPS activated microglia inflammation. Given the significant potency of RvD2 and
well-known side effects of microglia inflammatory inhibitors, it may represent
novel hotspot for treating neurodegenerative disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25824039  [PubMed - in process]


239. Motor Control. 2015 Mar 27. [Epub ahead of print]

Does Dopamine Replacement Medication Affect Postural Sequence Learning in
Parkinson Disease?

Hayes HA(1), Hunsaker N, Schaefer SY, Shultz B, Schenkenberg T, Boyd L, White AT,
Foreman KB, Dyer P, Maletsky R, Dibble LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT.

Deficits in sequence-specific learning (SSL) may be a product of Parkinson
disease (PD) but this deficit could also be related to dopamine replacement. The 
purpose of this study was to determine whether dopamine replacement affected
acquisition and retention of a standing Continuous Tracking Task in individuals
with PD. SSL (difference between random/repeated Root Mean Square Error across
trials) was calculated over 2 days of practice and 1 day of retention for 4
groups; 10 healthy young (HY), 10 healthy elders, 10 individuals with PD on, 9
individuals with PD off their usual dosage of dopamine replacement. Improvements 
in acquisition were observed for all groups; however, only the HY demonstrated
retention. Therefore, age appeared to have the largest effect on SSL with no
significant effect of medication. Additional research is needed to understand the
influence of factors such as practice amount, task difficulty, and dopamine
replacement status on SSL deficits during postural tasks.

PMID: 25823498  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


240. Geophys Res Lett. 2014 Jun 28;41(12):4316-4322. Epub 2014 Jun 27.

Spatially mapped reductions in the length of the Arctic sea ice season.

Parkinson CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cryospheric Sciences Laboratory, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt,
Maryland, USA.

Satellite data are used to determine the number of days having sea ice coverage
in each year 1979-2013 and to map the trends in these ice-season lengths. Over
the majority of the Arctic seasonal sea ice zone, the ice season shortened at an 
average rate of at least 5 days/decade between 1979 and 2013, and in a small area
in the northeastern Barents Sea the rate of shortening reached over
65 days/decade. The only substantial non-coastal area with lengthening sea ice
seasons is the Bering Sea, where the ice season lengthened by 5-15 days/decade.
Over the Arctic as a whole, the area with ice seasons shortened by at least
5 days/decade is 12.4 × 10(6) km(2), while the area with ice seasons lengthened
by at least 5 days/decade is only 1.1 × 10(6) km(2). The contrast is even
greater, percentage-wise, for higher rates.KEY POINTS: Sea ice seasons have
shortened by at least 5 days/decade over most of the ArcticAcross 1.9 million
km(2) ice seasons have shortened by at least 25 days/decadeCounter to most of the
Arctic ice seasons have lengthened in the Bering Sea.

PMCID: PMC4373179
PMID: 25821265  [PubMed]


241. Med Res Rev. 2015 Mar 27. doi: 10.1002/med.21344. [Epub ahead of print]

History and Perspectives of A2A Adenosine Receptor Antagonists as Potential
Therapeutic Agents.

Preti D(1), Baraldi PG, Moorman AR, Borea PA, Varani K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Ferrara,
44121, Ferrara, Italy.

Growing evidence emphasizes that the purine nucleoside adenosine plays an active 
role as a local regulator in different pathologies. Adenosine is a ubiquitous
nucleoside involved in various physiological and pathological functions by
stimulating A1 , A2A , A2B , and A3 adenosine receptors (ARs). At the present
time, the role of A2A ARs is well known in physiological conditions and in a
variety of pathologies, including inflammatory tissue damage and
neurodegenerative disorders. In particular, the use of selective A2A antagonists 
has been reported to be potentially useful in the treatment of Parkinson's
disease (PD). In this review, A2A AR signal transduction pathways, together with 
an analysis of the structure-activity relationships of A2A antagonists, and their
corresponding pharmacological roles and therapeutic potential have been
presented. The initial results from an emerging polypharmacological approach are 
also analyzed. This approach is based on the optimization of the affinity and/or 
functional activity of the examined compounds toward multiple targets, such as A1
/A2A ARs and monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B), both closely implicated in the
pathogenesis of PD.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25821194  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


242. Ann Neurol. 2015 Mar 27. doi: 10.1002/ana.24375. [Epub ahead of print]

Dual κ-agonist/μ-antagonist opioid receptor modulation reduces levodopa-induced
dyskinesia and corrects dysregulated striatal changes in the nonhuman primate
model of Parkinson disease.

Potts LF(1), Park ES, Woo JM, Dyavar Shetty BL, Singh A, Braithwaite SP, Voronkov
M, Papa SM, Mouradian MM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuropharmacology and Neurologic Diseases, Yerkes National Primate
Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA.

OBJECTIVE: Effective medical management of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID)
remains an unmet need for patients with Parkinson disease (PD). Changes in opioid
transmission in the basal ganglia associated with LID suggest a therapeutic
opportunity. Here we determined the impact of modulating both mu and kappa opioid
receptor signaling using the mixed agonist/antagonist analgesic nalbuphine in
reducing LID and its molecular markers in the nonhuman primate model.
METHODS: 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated macaques with
advanced parkinsonism and reproducible LID received a range of nalbuphine doses
or saline subcutaneously as: (1) monotherapy, (2) acute coadministration with
levodopa, and (3) chronic coadministration for 1 month. Animals were assessed by 
blinded examiners for motor disability and LID severity using standardized rating
scales. Plasma levodopa levels were determined with and without nalbuphine, and
postmortem brain samples were subjected to Western blot analyses.
RESULTS: Nalbuphine reduced LID in a dose-dependent manner by 48% (p < 0.001)
without compromising the anti-PD effect of levodopa or changing plasma levodopa
levels. There was no tolerance to the anti-LID effect of nalbuphine given
chronically. Nalbuphine coadministered with levodopa was well tolerated and did
not cause sedation. Nalbuphine monotherapy had no effect on motor disability.
Striatal tissue analyses showed that nalbuphine cotherapy blocks several
molecular correlates of LID, including overexpression of ΔFosB, prodynorphin,
dynorphin A, cyclin-dependent kinase 5, and increased phosphorylation of DARPP-32
at threonine-34.
INTERPRETATION: Nalbuphine reverses the molecular milieu in the striatum
associated with LID and is a safe and effective anti-LID agent in the primate
model of PD. These findings support repurposing this analgesic for the treatment 
of LID. Ann Neurol 2015.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25820831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


243. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):655-61. doi: 10.1002/mds.26207. Epub 2015 Mar 26.

Altered structure of cortical sulci in gilles de la Tourette syndrome: Further
support for abnormal brain development.

Muellner J(1), Delmaire C, Valabrégue R, Schüpbach M, Mangin JF, Vidailhet M,
Lehéricy S, Hartmann A, Worbe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris (APHP), INSERM, ICM, Centre
d'Investigation Clinique Pitié Neurosciences, CIC-1422, Département des Maladies 
du Système Nerveux, Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France;
Department of Neurology, Inselspital, University Hospital Bern, Bern,
Switzerland.

Gilles de la Tourette syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by 
the presence of motor and vocal tics. We hypothesized that patients with this
syndrome would present an aberrant pattern of cortical formation, which could
potentially reflect global alterations of brain development. Using 3 Tesla
structural neuroimaging, we compared sulcal depth, opening, and length and
thickness of sulcal gray matter in 52 adult patients and 52 matched controls.
Cortical sulci were automatically reconstructed and identified over the whole
brain, using BrainVisa software. We focused on frontal, parietal, and temporal
cortical regions, in which abnormal structure and functional activity were
identified in previous neuroimaging studies. Partial correlation analysis with
age, sex, and treatment as covariables of noninterest was performed amongst
relevant clinical and neuroimaging variables in patients. Patients with Gilles de
la Tourette syndrome showed lower depth and reduced thickness of gray matter in
the pre- and post-central as well as superior, inferior, and internal frontal
sulci. In patients with associated obsessive-compulsive disorder, additional
structural changes were found in temporal, insular, and olfactory sulci.
Crucially, severity of tics and of obsessive-compulsive disorder measured by Yale
Global Tic severity scale and Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive scale,
respectively, correlated with structural sulcal changes in sensorimotor,
temporal, dorsolateral prefrontal, and middle cingulate cortical areas. Patients 
with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome displayed an abnormal structural pattern of
cortical sulci, which correlated with severity of clinical symptoms. Our results 
provide further evidence of abnormal brain development in GTS. © 2015
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25820811  [PubMed - in process]


244. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 29. doi: 10.1002/mds.26203. [Epub ahead of print]

T1ρ imaging in premanifest Huntington disease reveals changes associated with
disease progression.

Wassef SN(1), Wemmie J, Johnson CP, Johnson H, Paulsen JS, Long JD, Magnotta VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, USA; SINAPSE,
Iowa Neuroimaging Consortium, Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa, Iowa 
City, Iowa, USA.

Imaging biomarkers sensitive to Huntington's disease (HD) during the premanifest 
phase preceding motor diagnosis may accelerate identification and evaluation of
potential therapies. For this purpose, quantitative MRI sensitive to tissue
microstructure and metabolism may hold great potential. We investigated the
potential value of T1ρ relaxation to detect pathological changes in premanifest
HD (preHD) relative to other quantitative relaxation parameters. Quantitative MR 
parametric mapping was used to assess differences between 50 preHD subjects and
26 age- and sex-matched controls. Subjects with preHD were classified into two
progression groups based on their CAG-age product (CAP) score; a high and a
low/moderate CAP group. Voxel-wise and region-of-interest analyses were used to
assess changes in the quantitative relaxation times. T1ρ showed a significant
increase in the relaxation times in the high-CAP group, as compared to controls, 
largely in the striatum. The T1ρ changes in the preHD subjects showed a
significant relationship with CAP score. No significant changes in T2 or T2*
relaxation times were found in the striatum. T2* relaxation changes were found in
the globus pallidus, but no significant changes with disease progression were
found. These data suggest that quantitative T1ρ mapping may provide a useful
marker for assessing disease progression in HD. The absence of T2 changes
suggests that the T1ρ abnormalities are unlikely owing to altered water content
or tissue structure. The established sensitivity of T1ρ to pH and glucose
suggests that these factors are altered in HD perhaps owing to abnormal
mitochondrial function. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25820773  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


245. Ann Neurol. 2015 Mar 26. doi: 10.1002/ana.24410. [Epub ahead of print]

Syndromic parkinsonism and dementia associated with OPA1 missense mutations.

Carelli V(1), Musumeci O, Caporali L, Zanna C, La Morgia C, Del Dotto V, Porcelli
AM, Rugolo M, Valentino ML, Iommarini L, Maresca A, Barboni P, Carbonelli M,
Trombetta C, Valente EM, Patergnani S, Giorgi C, Pinton P, Rizzo G, Tonon C, Lodi
R, Avoni P, Liguori R, Baruzzi A, Toscano A, Zeviani M.

Author information: 
(1)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Bellaria Hospital,
Bologna, Italy; Unit of Neurology, Department of Biomedical and NeuroMotor
Sciences (DIBINEM), University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

Objective Mounting evidence links neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson
and Alzheimer disease with mitochondrial dysfunction and recent emphasis has
focused on mitochondrial dynamics and quality control. Mitochondrial dynamics and
mtDNA maintenance is another link emerged recently, implicating mutations in the 
mitochondrial fusion genes OPA1 and MFN2 in the pathogenesis of multisystem
syndromes characterized by neurodegeneration and accumulation of mtDNA multiple
deletions in post-mitotic tissues. Here, we report two Italian families affected 
by dominant chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) complicated by
parkinsonism and dementia. Methods Patients were extensively studied by optical
coherence tomography (OCT) to assess retinal nerve fibers, muscle and brain MR
spectroscopy, analysis of muscle biopsy and fibroblasts. Candidate genes were
sequenced and mtDNA was analyzed for rearrangements. Results Affected individuals
displayed a slowly progressive syndrome characterized by CPEO, mitochondrial
myopathy, sensorineural deafness, peripheral neuropathy, parkinsonism and/or
cognitive impairment, in most cases without visual complains, but with
subclinical loss of retinal nerve fibers at OCT. Muscle biopsies showed COX
negative fibers and mtDNA multiple deletions, and MR spectroscopy displayed
defective oxidative metabolism in muscle and brain. We found two heterozygous
OPA1 missense mutations affecting highly conserved amino acid positions (p.G488R,
p.A495V) in the GTPase domain, each segregating with affected individuals.
Fibroblast studies showed reduced amount of OPA1 protein with normal mRNA
expression, fragmented mitochondria, impaired bioenergetics, increased autophagy 
and mitophagy. Interpretation The association of CPEO and parkinsonism/dementia
with subclinical optic neuropathy widens the phenotypic spectrum of OPA1
mutations, highlighting the link of defective mitochondrial dynamics, mtDNA
multiple deletions and altered mitophagy with parkinsonism. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25820230  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


246. Am Heart J. 2015 Apr;169(4):508-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2014.11.018. Epub 2014 Dec
20.

Parkinson disease and risk of acute myocardial infarction: A population-based,
propensity score-matched, longitudinal follow-up study.

Liang HW(1), Huang YP(2), Pan SL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, National Taiwan University
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Department of 
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, National Taiwan University Hospital,
Yun-Lin Branch, Yunlin, Taiwan. (3)Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Department
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, National Taiwan University College of
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: panslcb@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: Previous studies on the risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in 
patients with Parkinson disease (PD) have generated inconsistent results. The
purpose of this population-based longitudinal follow-up study was to investigate 
whether incident PD is associated with an increased risk of AMI.
METHODS: A total of 3,211 subjects with at least 2 ambulatory visits with the
principal diagnosis of PD in 2001 were enrolled in the PD group. The non-PD group
consisted of 3,211 propensity score-matched subjects without PD. The propensity
scores were computed using a logistic regression model that included age, sex,
preexisting comorbidities, and socioeconomic status. The 3-year AMI-free survival
rates of the 2 groups were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Stratified
Cox proportional hazard regression with patients matched by propensity score was 
used to estimate the effect of PD on subsequent occurrence of AMI.
RESULTS: During the 3-year follow-up period, 83 subjects in the PD group and 53
in the non-PD group developed AMI (either fatal or nonfatal) events. The hazard
ratio of AMI for the PD group compared with the non-PD group was 1.67 (95% CI
1.15-2.41, P = .0067). The AMI-free survival rate of the PD group was
significantly lower than that of the non-PD group (P = .0032). The hazard ratios 
associated with PD for the combined end point 1 (AMI or cardiovascular death) and
combined end point 2 (AMI or all-cause death) were 1.46 (95% CI 1.14-1.88, P =
.0029) and 1.42 (95% CI 1.24-1.64, P < .0001), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that PD is related to an increased risk of AMI.
Further studies are required to investigate the mechanism underlying this
association.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25819857  [PubMed - in process]


247. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 7. pii: S1353-8020(15)00081-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.026. [Epub ahead of print]

Detecting and monitoring the symptoms of Parkinson's disease using smartphones: A
pilot study.

Arora S(1), Venkataraman V(2), Zhan A(3), Donohue S(3), Biglan KM(4), Dorsey
ER(5), Little MA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Nonlinearity and Complexity Research Group, Aston University, Birmingham,
United Kingdom; Somerville College, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(2)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, United States. (3)Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, United States. (4)Department of Neurology,
University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, United States.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester,
NY, United States; CHET, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY,
United States. Electronic address: ray.dorsey@chet.rochester.edu. (6)Nonlinearity
and Complexity Research Group, Aston University, Birmingham, United Kingdom;
Media Lab, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, MA, United States.

BACKGROUND: Remote, non-invasive and objective tests that can be used to support 
expert diagnosis for Parkinson's disease (PD) are lacking.
METHODS: Participants underwent baseline in-clinic assessments, including the
Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), and were provided smartphones
with an Android operating system that contained a smartphone application that
assessed voice, posture, gait, finger tapping, and response time. Participants
then took the smart phones home to perform the five tasks four times a day for a 
month. Once a week participants had a remote (telemedicine) visit with a
Parkinson disease specialist in which a modified (excluding assessments of
rigidity and balance) UPDRS performed. Using statistical analyses of the five
tasks recorded using the smartphone from 10 individuals with PD and 10 controls, 
we sought to: (1) discriminate whether the participant had PD and (2) predict the
modified motor portion of the UPDRS.
RESULTS: Twenty participants performed an average of 2.7 tests per day (68.9%
adherence) for the study duration (average of 34.4 days) in a home and community 
setting. The analyses of the five tasks differed between those with Parkinson
disease and those without. In discriminating participants with PD from controls, 
the mean sensitivity was 96.2% (SD 2%) and mean specificity was 96.9% (SD 1.9%). 
The mean error in predicting the modified motor component of the UPDRS (range
11-34) was 1.26 UPDRS points (SD 0.16).
CONCLUSION: Measuring PD symptoms via a smartphone is feasible and has potential 
value as a diagnostic support tool.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25819808  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


248. Curr Biol. 2015 Apr 20;25(8):1086-90. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2015.02.061. Epub 2015
Mar 26.

Fitness Trade-offs Result in the Illusion of Social Success.

Wolf JB(1), Howie JA(2), Parkinson K(2), Gruenheit N(2), Melo D(3), Rozen D(4),
Thompson CR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Claverton Down,
Bath BA2 7AY, UK. Electronic address: jason@evolutionarygenetics.org. (2)Faculty 
of Life Sciences, Michael Smith Building, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, 
Manchester M13 9PT, UK. (3)Departamento de Genética e Biologia Evolutiva,
Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Biology, Leiden University, Sylvius Laboratory, Sylviusweg 72, PO
Box 9505, 2300 RA Leiden, the Netherlands. (5)Faculty of Life Sciences, Michael
Smith Building, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.
Electronic address: christopher.thompson@manchester.ac.uk.

Cooperation is ubiquitous across the tree of life, from simple microbes to the
complex social systems of animals [1]. Individuals cooperate by engaging in
costly behaviors that can be exploited by other individuals who benefit by
avoiding these associated costs. Thus, if successful exploitation of social
partners during cooperative interactions increases relative fitness, then we
expect selection to lead to the emergence of a single optimal winning strategy in
which individuals maximize their gain from cooperation while minimizing their
associated costs [2]. Such social "cheating" appears to be widespread in nature
[3], including in several microbial systems [4-11], but despite the fitness
advantages favoring social cheating, populations tend to harbor significant
variation in social success rather than a single optimal winning strategy. Using 
the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, we provide a possible explanation for
the coexistence of such variation. We find that genotypes typically designated as
"cheaters" [12] because they produce a disproportionate number of spores in
chimeric fruiting bodies do not actually gain higher fitness as a result of this 
apparent advantage because they produce smaller, less viable spores than putative
"losers." As a consequence of this trade-off between spore number and viability, 
genotypes with different spore production strategies, which give the appearance
of differential social success, ultimately have similar realized fitness. These
findings highlight the limitations of using single fitness proxies in
evolutionary studies and suggest that interpreting social trait variation in
terms of strategies like cheating or cooperating may be misleading unless these
behaviors are considered in the context of the true multidimensional nature of
fitness.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4406944
PMID: 25819562  [PubMed - in process]


249. World Neurosurg. 2015 Mar 25. pii: S1878-8750(15)00295-8. doi:
10.1016/j.wneu.2015.03.028. [Epub ahead of print]

Cerebral angiography for multimodal surgical planning in epilepsy surgery:
description of a new three-dimensional technique and literature review.

Cardinale F(1), Pero G(2), Quilici L(2), Piano M(2), Colombo P(3), Moscato A(3), 
Castana L(4), Casaceli G(4), Fuschillo D(4), Gennari L(2), Cenzato M(5), Russo
GL(4), Cossu M(4).

Author information: 
(1)"Claudio Munari" Centre for Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery - Niguarda Hospital
- Milano - Italy. Electronic address: francesco.cardinale@ospedaleniguarda.it.
(2)Department of Neuroradiology - Niguarda Hospital - Milano - Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Physics - Niguarda Hospital - Milano - Italy.
(4)"Claudio Munari" Centre for Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery - Niguarda Hospital
- Milano - Italy. (5)Department of Neurosurgery - Niguarda Hospital - Milano -
Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Cerebrovascular imaging is critical for safe and accurate planning of 
Stereo-ElectroEncephaloGraphy (SEEG) electrode trajectory. We developed a new
technique for Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) Three-Dimensional Digital
Subtraction Angiography (3D DSA).
METHODS: The workflow core is the acquisition of computed tomography datasets
without (bone mask) and with selective injection of contrast medium in the main
brain feeding arteries, followed by dataset registration and subtraction. The
images were acquired with the O-armTM 1000 System (Medtronic). Images were
post-processed with FSL software package. We retrospectively analyzed 191 3D DSA 
procedures, and qualitatively analyzed the quality of each 3D DSA dataset.
RESULTS: The quality of 3D DSA was Good in 150 procedures, Sufficient in 37, and 
Poor in 4. 3D rendering of the vascular tree was helpful for both SEEG
implantation and resective surgery planning. Angiography complications occurred
in only one procedure that was aborted due to a major allergic reaction to
contrast medium. No other complications directly related to 3D DSA occurred.
Minor intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in 2/191 patients after SEEG
implantation, with no permanent sequelae.
CONCLUSIONS: CBCT 3D DSA is a safe diagnostic procedure for SEEG electrode
trajectory planning and for 3D reconstructions of the vascular tree in multimodal
scenes for resections. The high fidelity and geometric accuracy contribute to the
safety of electrode implantation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25819527  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


250. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2015 Apr;115(4):609-618.e40. doi: 10.1016/j.jand.2014.12.018.

Academy of nutrition and dietetics: standards of practice and standards of
professional performance for registered dietitian nutritionists (competent,
proficient, and expert) in adult weight management.

Jortberg B, Myers E, Gigliotti L, Ivens BJ, Lebre M, Burke March S, Nogueira I,
Nwankwo R, Parkinson MR, Paulsen B, Turner T.

Weight management encompasses the inter-relationship of nutrition, physical
activity, and health behavior change. Nutrition is key for the prevention and
treatment of obesity and chronic disease and maintenance of overall health. Thus,
the Weight Management Dietetic Practice Group, with guidance from the Academy of 
Nutrition and Dietetics Quality Management Committee, has developed Standards of 
Practice and Standards of Professional Performance for Registered Dietitian
Nutritionists (RDNs) in Adult Weight Management as a resource for RDNs working in
weight management. This document allows RDNs to assess their current skill levels
and to identify areas for further professional development in this expanding
practice area. This document describes the current standards for weight
management practice for RDNs. The Standards of Practice represent the four steps 
in the Nutrition Care Process as applied to the care of patients/clients. The
Standards of Professional Performance consist of six domains of professionalism: 
Quality in Practice, Competence and Accountability, Provision of Services,
Application of Research, Communication and Application of Knowledge, and
Utilization and Management of Resources. Within each standard, specific
indicators provide measurable action statements that illustrate how the standard 
can be applied to practice. The indicators describe three skill levels
(competent, proficient, and expert) for RDNs working in weight management. The
Standards of Practice and Standards of Professional Performance are complementary
resources for the Registered Dietitian Nutritionist in weight management.

Copyright © 2015 Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25819519  [PubMed - in process]


251. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 14. pii: S1353-8020(15)00102-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Health-related quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease: Implications
for falling.

Gazibara T(1), Pekmezovic T(1), Kisic Tepavcevic D(1), Svetel M(2), Tomic A(2),
Stankovic I(2), Kostic VS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade,
Serbia. (2)Clinic of Neurology, Clinical Centre of Serbia, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Belgrade, Serbia. (3)Clinic of Neurology, Clinical Centre of
Serbia, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic address: 
vladimir.s.kostic@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: It has been demonstrated that various domains of health-related
quality of life (HRQoL) have predictive value in progression of disability and
depression in a neurological setting. The aim of this study was to assess
potential predictive value of domains of HRQoL in occurrence of falls among
persons with Parkinson's disease (PD) over one year of follow-up.
METHODS: The study comprised cross-sectional design at baseline and 1-year
prospective cohort study. Those who denied having fallen in the past 6 months
were followed for one year, while participants were asked to record falls
prospectively in a falls diary for a year. A total of 300 consecutive PD
outpatients without cognitive impairment were recruited from August 15, 2011 to
December 15, 2012 in the outpatient Department of Movement Disorders, Institute
of Neurology, Clinical Center of Serbia in Belgrade. The HRQoL was evaluated
using the SF-36 questionnaire.
RESULTS: All domains of the SF-36, except Role Emotional, were significantly
lower among fallers. After controlling for potential confounding factors, the
domain of Role Physical (p = 0.027), Physical Composite Score (p = 0.023) and the
total SF-36 score (p = 0.029) were significant predictors of occurrence of falls 
within one year of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of quality of life represents an additional tool to the
established measures of clinical course of the disease and could provide further 
insight in complex distinction of risk factors for falling in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25818536  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


252. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Jun;78:100-14. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.03.008. Epub 2015 Mar 
25.

Ser129 phosphorylation of endogenous α-synuclein induced by overexpression of
polo-like kinases 2 and 3 in nigral dopamine neurons is not detrimental to their 
survival and function.

Buck K(1), Landeck N(2), Ulusoy A(2), Majbour NK(3), El-Agnaf OM(4), Kirik D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Repair and Imaging in Neural Systems, Department of Experimental Medical
Science, Lund University, BMC D11, 22184 Lund, Sweden. Electronic address:
kerstin.buck@imail.de. (2)Brain Repair and Imaging in Neural Systems, Department 
of Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, BMC D11, 22184 Lund, Sweden.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United
Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates. (4)Department of
Biochemistry, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United Arab Emirates
University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates; Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz
University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

Phosphorylation of the α-synuclein (α-syn) protein at Ser129 [P(S129)-α-syn] was 
found to be the most abundant form in intracellular inclusions in brains from
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. This finding suggests that P(S129)-α-syn plays
a central role in the pathogenesis of PD. However, it is at present unclear
whether P(S129)-α-syn is pathogenic driving the neurodegenerative process. Rodent
studies using neither the phosphomimics of human α-syn nor co-expression of human
wild-type α-syn and kinases phosphorylating α-syn at Ser129 gave consistent
results. One major concern in interpreting these findings is that human α-syn was
expressed above physiological levels inducing neurodegeneration in rat nigral
neurons. In order to exclude this confounding factor, we took a different
approach and increased the phosphorylation level of endogenous α-syn. For this
purpose, we took advantage of recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors
to deliver polo-like kinase (PLK) 2 or PLK3 in the substantia nigra and
investigated whether increased levels of P(S129)-α-syn compromised the function
and survival of nigral dopaminergic neurons. Interestingly, we observed that
hyperphosphorylated α-syn did not induce nigral dopaminergic cell death, as
assessed at 1 and 4months. Furthermore, histological analysis did not show any
accumulation of α-syn protein or formation of inclusions. Using in vivo
microdialysis, we found that the only measurable functional alteration was the
depolarisation-induced release of dopamine, while the in vivo synthesis rate of
DOPA and dopamine baseline release remained unaltered. Taken together, our
results suggest that phosphorylation of α-syn at Ser129 does not confer a toxic
gain of function per se.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25818009  [PubMed - in process]


253. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Mar 27. pii: jnnp-2014-310239. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-310239. [Epub ahead of print]

Frequency and profile of Parkinson's disease prodromi in patients with malignant 
melanoma.

Walter U(1), Heilmann E(1), Voss J(1), Riedel K(2), Zhivov A(2), Schäd SG(3),
Gross GE(3), Benecke R(1), Trcka J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Venerology, University of Rostock, Rostock,
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The results of register studies suggest an association between
Parkinson's disease (PD) and melanoma. We studied the frequency and profile of
early markers of PD in patients with malignant melanoma.
METHODS: 100 participants were enrolled in a prospective observational study, of 
whom 65 had a history of high-risk cutaneous (n=53) or uveal (n=12) melanoma (31 
women; age, 61.2±14.9 years) and another 35 served as control participants (19
women; 54.6±20.5 years). Participants underwent assessments of motor function
(Unified PD Rating Scale; keyboard tapping test), olfactory function, colour
vision, depressive symptoms, the Non-Motor Symptoms Questionnaire, and
transcranial brain sonography. Raters were blinded to the diagnosis and clinical 
data of study participants.
RESULTS: Patients with melanoma showed increased frequency of substantia nigra
hyperechogenicity and prodromal motor and non-motor features of PD, especially
asymmetric motor slowing and apathy. Hyposmia and colour vision disturbance were,
however, infrequent. Larger echogenicity of substantia nigra correlated with
lower serum iron in patients with melanoma, similar to previously reported
findings in PD, and independently from the earlier findings, with lighter skin
pigmentation. Substantia nigra hyperechogenicity, combined with motor asymmetry
or hyposmia, was present at baseline in all participants with mild or definite
parkinsonism diagnosed after 1 year. Parkinsonism was specifically related to
melanoma location at the sun-exposed skin of the head or neck.
CONCLUSIONS: History of melanoma was associated with increased prevalence of
prodromal markers of PD. Their predictive value needs to be established in
long-term investigations. The similarity of serum iron characteristics found in
patients with melanoma and PD deserves further research.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25817520  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


254. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 14. pii: S1353-8020(15)00106-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkinson disease: α-synuclein mutational screening and new clinical insight into
the p.E46K mutation.

Pimentel MM(1), Rodrigues FC(2), Leite MA(3), Campos Júnior M(4), Rosso AL(5),
Nicaretta DH(6), Pereira JS(7), Silva DJ(8), Della Coletta MV(9), Vasconcellos
LF(10), Abreu GM(2), Dos Santos JM(2), Santos-Rebouças CB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Institute of Biology Roberto Alcantara Gomes, State
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Electronic address:
pimentel@uerj.br. (2)Department of Genetics, Institute of Biology Roberto
Alcantara Gomes, State University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Movement Disorders Unit, Division of Neurology, University Hospital Antônio
Pedro, Fluminense Federal University, Brazil. (4)Brazil Human Genetics
Laboratory, Oswaldo Cruz Institute, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. (5)University Hospital Clementino Fraga Filho, Federal University of Rio 
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (6)Santa Casa da Misericórdia do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (7)Movement Disorders Section, Neurology
Service, Pedro Ernesto University Hospital, State University of Rio de Janeiro,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (8)Neuroscience Core, Hospital Clinics, Federal
University of Goiás, Brazil; Integrated Neurosciences Institute, Goiás, Brazil.
(9)University Hospital Getúlio Vargas, Federal University of Amazonas, Amazonas, 
Brazil. (10)Institute of Neurology Deolindo Couto, Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Federal Hospital of Servidores do Estado, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Amongst Parkinson's disease-causing genetic factors, missense
mutations and genomic multiplications in the gene encoding α-synuclein are well
established causes of the disease, although genetic data in populations with a
high degree of admixture, such as the Brazilian one, are still scarce.
METHODS: In this study, we conducted a molecular screening of α-synuclein point
mutations and copy number variation in the largest cohort of Brazilian patients
with Parkinson's disease (n = 549) and also in twelve Portuguese and one Bolivian
immigrants. Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood leukocytes or saliva, 
and the mutational screening was performed by quantitative and qualitative
real-time PCR.
RESULTS: The only alteration identified was the p.E46K mutation in a 60-year-old 
man, born in Bolivia, with a familial history of autosomal dominant Parkinson's
disease. This is the second family ever reported, in which this rare pathogenic
mutation is segregating. The same mutation was firstly described ten years ago in
a Spanish family with a neurodegenerative syndrome combining parkinsonism,
dementia and visual hallucinations. The clinical condition of our proband reveals
a less aggressive phenotype than previously described and reinforces that marked 
phenotypic heterogeneity is common among patients with Parkinson's disease, even 
among those carriers sharing the same mutation.
CONCLUSION: Our findings add new insight into the preexisting information about
α-synuclein p.E46K, improving our understanding about the endophenotypes
associated to this mutation and corroborate that missense alterations and
multiplications in α-synuclein are uncommon among Brazilian patients with
Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25817515  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


255. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):536-40. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.008. Epub 2015 Mar 13.

Morphologic changes in the mesolimbic pathway in Parkinson's disease motor
subtypes.

Nyberg EM(1), Tanabe J(1), Honce JM(1), Krmpotich T(1), Shelton E(2), Hedeman
J(2), Berman BD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO, United
States. (2)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO,
United States. (3)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora,
CO, United States. Electronic address: brian.berman@ucdenver.edu.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder
associated with gray matter atrophy. Cortical atrophy patterns may further help
distinguish between PD motor subtypes. Comparable differences in subcortical
volumes have not been found.
METHODS: Twenty-one cognitively intact and treated PD patients, including 12
tremor dominant (TD) subtype, Nine postural instability gait dominant (PIGD)
subtype, and 20 matched healthy control subjects underwent 3.0 T high-resolution 
structural MRI scanning. Subcortical volumetric analysis was performed using
FreeSurfer and shape analysis was performed with FIRST to assess for differences 
between PD patients and controls and between PD subtypes.
RESULTS: No significant differences in subcortical volumes were found between
motor PD subtypes, but comparing grouped PD patients with controls revealed a
significant increase in hippocampal volume in PD patients (p = 0.03). A
significant shape difference was detected in the right nucleus accumbens (NAcc)
between PD and controls and between motor subtypes. Shape differences were driven
by positive deviations in the TD subtype. Correlation analysis revealed a trend
between hippocampal volume and decreasing MDS-UPDRS (p = 0.06).
CONCLUSION: While no significant differences in subcortical volumes between PD
motor subtypes were found, increased hippocampal volumes were observed in PD
patients compared to controls. Right NAcc shape differences in PD patients were
driven by changes in the TD subtype. These unexpected findings may be related to 
the effects of chronic dopaminergic replacement on the mesolimbic pathway.
Further studies are needed to replicate and determine the clinical significance
of such morphologic changes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4424152 [Available on 2016-05-01]
PMID: 25817514  [PubMed - in process]


256. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar 17. pii: S1353-8020(15)00105-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.03.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetic markers of Restless Legs Syndrome in Parkinson disease.

Gan-Or Z(1), Alcalay RN(2), Bar-Shira A(3), Leblond CS(1), Postuma RB(4),
Ben-Shachar S(3), Waters C(2), Johnson A(5), Levy O(2), Mirelman A(6), Gana-Weisz
M(3), Dupré N(7), Montplaisir J(8), Giladi N(9), Fahn S(2), Xiong L(10), Dion
PA(11), Orr-Urtreger A(12), Rouleau GA(13).

Author information: 
(1)Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada;
Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Neurology and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease
and the Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New
York, NY, USA. (3)The Genetic Institute, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center,
Tel-Aviv, Israel. (4)Department of Neurology, Montreal General Hospital,
Montréal, QC, Canada. (5)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, Research Centre, Montreal
Mental Health University Institute, Montréal, QC, Canada. (6)Department of
Neurology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (7)Faculté de
Médecine, Université Laval, CHU de Québec (Enfant-Jésus), Québec, QC, Canada.
(8)Centre d'Études Avancées en Médecine du Sommeil, Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada; Department of Psychiatry, Université de Montréal,
Montréal, QC, Canada. (9)Department of Neurology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical
Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine and Sagol School of
Neuroscience, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (10)Laboratory of
Neurogenetics, Research Centre, Montreal Mental Health University Institute,
Montréal, QC, Canada; Department of Psychiatry, Université de Montréal, Montréal,
QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University,
Montréal, QC, Canada. (11)Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montréal, QC, Canada. (12)The Genetic Institute, Tel-Aviv Sourasky
Medical Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine and Sagol School of
Neuroscience, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (13)Montreal Neurological
Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montréal, QC, Canada. Electronic address:
guy.rouleau@mcgill.ca.

INTRODUCTION: Several studies proposed that Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) and
Parkinson disease (PD) may be clinically and/or etiologically related. To examine
this hypothesis, we aimed to determine whether the known RLS genetic markers may 
be associated with PD risk, as well as with PD subtype.
METHODS: Two case-control cohorts from Tel-Aviv and New-York, including 1133 PD
patients and 867 controls were genotyped for four RLS-related SNPs in the genes
MEIS1, BTBD9, PTPRD and MAP2K5/SKOR1. The association between genotype, PD risk
and phenotype was tested using multivariate regression models.
RESULTS: None of the tested SNPs was significantly associated with PD risk,
neither in any individual cohort nor in the combined analysis after correction
for multiple comparisons. The MAP2K5/SKOR1 marker rs12593813 was associated with 
higher frequency of tremor in the Tel-Aviv cohort (61.0% vs. 46.5%, p = 0.001,
dominant model). However, the risk allele for tremor in this gene has been
associated with reduced RLS risk. Moreover, this association did not replicate in
Tremor-dominant PD patients from New-York.
CONCLUSION: RLS genetic risk markers are not associated with increased PD risk or
subtype in the current study. Together with previous genetic, neuropathological
and epidemiologic studies, our results further strengthen the notion that RLS and
PD are likely to be distinct entities.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25817513  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


257. Nanomedicine (Lond). 2015 Mar;10(5):765-83. doi: 10.2217/nnm.14.221.

Fibrin-based microsphere reservoirs for delivery of neurotrophic factors to the
brain.

Samal J(1), Hoban DB, Naughton C, Concannon R, Dowd E, Pandit A.

Author information: 
(1)Network of Excellence for Functional Biomaterials.

AIM: The in vivo therapeutic potential of neurotrophic factors to modify neuronal
dysfunctions is limited by their short half-life. A biomaterials-based
intervention, which protects these factors and allows a controlled release, is
required.
MATERIALS & METHODS: Hollow fibrin microspheres were fabricated by charge
manipulation using polystyrene templates and were loaded with NGF. Bioactivity of
released NGF was demonstrated by neuronal outgrowth assay in PC-12 cells followed
by in vivo assessment for NGF release and host response.
RESULTS: Fibrin-based hollow spheres showed high loading efficiency (>80%).
Neurotrophin encapsulation into the microspheres did not alter its bioactivity
and controlled release of NGF was observed in the in vivo study.
CONCLUSION: Fibrin hollow microspheres act as a suitable delivery platform for
neurotrophic factors with tunable loading efficiency and maintaining their
bioactive form after release in vivo.

PMID: 25816879  [PubMed - in process]


258. World J Psychiatry. 2015 Mar 22;5(1):68-78. doi: 10.5498/wjp.v5.i1.68.

Effects of music and music therapy on mood in neurological patients.

Raglio A(1), Attardo L(1), Gontero G(1), Rollino S(1), Groppo E(1), Granieri
E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Alfredo Raglio, Lapo Attardo, Giulia Gontero, Silvia Rollino, Department of
Public Health, Experimental and Forensic Medicine, University of Pavia, 27100
Pavia, Italy.

Mood disorder and depressive syndromes represent a common comorbid condition in
neurological disorders with a prevalence rate that ranges between 20% and 50% of 
patients with stroke, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease.
Notwithstanding, these conditions are often under-diagnosed and under-treated in 
the clinical practice and negatively affect the functional recovery, the
adherence to treatment, the quality of life, and even the mortality risk. In
addition, a bidirectional association between depression and neurological
disorders may be possible being that depressive syndromes may be considered as a 
risk factor for certain neurological diseases. Despite the large amount of
evidence regarding the effects of music therapy (MT) and other musical
interventions on different aspects of neurological disorders, no updated article 
reviewing outcomes such as mood, emotions, depression, activity of daily living
and so on is actually available; for this reason, little is known about the
effectiveness of music and MT on these important outcomes in neurological
patients. The aim of this article is to provide a narrative review of the current
literature on musical interventions and their effects on mood and depression in
patients with neurological disorders. Searching on PubMed and PsycInfo databases,
25 studies corresponding to the inclusion criteria have been selected; 11 of them
assess the effects of music or MT in Dementia, 9 explore the efficacy on patients
with Stroke, and 5 regard other neurological diseases like Multiple Sclerosis,
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/motor neuron disease, Chronic quadriplegia,
Parkinson's Disease, and Acquired Brain dysfunctions. Selected studies are based 
on relational and rehabilitative music therapy approaches or concern music
listening interventions. Most of the studies support the efficacy of MT and other
musical interventions on mood, depressive syndromes, and quality of life on
neurological patients.

PMCID: PMC4369551
PMID: 25815256  [PubMed]


259. Front Genet. 2015 Mar 11;6:78. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2015.00078. eCollection 2015.

Mitochondrial dysfunction in Parkinson disease: evidence in mutant PARK2
fibroblasts.

Zanellati MC(1), Monti V(1), Barzaghi C(1), Reale C(1), Nardocci N(2), Albanese
A(3), Valente EM(4), Ghezzi D(1), Garavaglia B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Molecular Neurogenetics - Pierfranco and Luisa Mariani Center for the 
Study of Mitochondrial Disorders in Children, Foundation of the Carlo Besta
Neurological Institute IRCCS, Milan, Italy. (2)Unit of Child Neurology,
Foundation of the Carlo Besta Neurological Institute IRCCS, Milan, Italy.
(3)Neurology Unit, Foundation of the Carlo Besta Neurological Institute IRCCS,
Milan, Italy. (4)Casa Sollievo Della Sofferenza Hospital, Mendel Institute Rome, 
Italy.

Mutations in PARK2, encoding Parkin, cause an autosomal recessive form of
juvenile Parkinson Disease (JPD). The aim of the present study was to investigate
the impact of PARK2 mutations on mitochondrial function and morphology in human
skin fibroblasts. We analyzed cells obtained from four patients clinically
characterized by JPD, harboring recessive mutations in PARK2. By quantitative PCR
we found a reduction (<50%) of PARK2 transcript in all patients but one; however 
Western Blot analysis demonstrated the virtual absence of Parkin protein in all
mutant fibroblasts. Respiration assays showed an increment of oxygen consumption,
which was uncoupled to ATP cellular levels. This finding was probably due to
presence of altered mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), confirmed by JC-1
analysis. The mitochondrial network was comparable between mutant and control
cells but, interestingly, a "chain-like" network was found only in mutant
fibroblasts. Dissipation of ΔΨm usually leads to mitochondrial fragmentation in
healthy cells and eventually to mitophagy; however, this behavior was not
observed in patients' fibroblasts. The absence of mitochondrial fragmentation in 
mutant Parkin fibroblasts could results in accumulation of damaged mitochondria
not targeted to mitophagy. This condition should increase the oxidative stress
and lead to cellular dysfunction and death. Our results suggest that PARK2
mutations cause mitochondrial impairment, in particular reduction in ATP cellular
levels and alteration of ΔΨm, even in non-neuronal cells and confirm the
hypothesis that Parkin holds a pivotal role in pro-fission events.

PMCID: PMC4356157
PMID: 25815004  [PubMed]


260. J Biol Chem. 2015 May 8;290(19):12425-34. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.625962. Epub 2015
Mar 26.

MicroRNA-7 Promotes Glycolysis to Protect against
1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced Cell Death.

Chaudhuri AD(1), Kabaria S(1), Choi DC(1), Mouradian MM(1), Junn E(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Center for Neurodegenerative and Neuroimmunologic Diseases,
Department of Neurology, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, 
New Jersey 08854. (2)From the Center for Neurodegenerative and Neuroimmunologic
Diseases, Department of Neurology, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854 junneu@rwjms.rutgers.edu.

Parkinson disease is associated with decreased activity of the mitochondrial
electron transport chain. This defect can be recapitulated in vitro by
challenging dopaminergic cells with 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), a
neurotoxin that inhibits complex I of electron transport chain. Consequently,
oxidative phosphorylation is blocked, and cells become dependent on glycolysis
for ATP production. Therefore, increasing the rate of glycolysis might help cells
to produce more ATP to meet their energy demands. In the present study, we show
that microRNA-7, a non-coding RNA that protects dopaminergic neuronal cells
against MPP(+)-induced cell death, promotes glycolysis in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y
and differentiated human neural progenitor ReNcell VM cells, as evidenced by
increased ATP production, glucose consumption, and lactic acid production.
Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate that targeted repression of RelA 
by microRNA-7, as well as subsequent increase in the neuronal glucose transporter
3 (Glut3), underlies this glycolysis-promoting effect. Consistently, silencing
Glut3 expression diminishes the protective effect of microRNA-7 against MPP(+).
Further, microRNA-7 fails to prevent MPP(+)-induced cell death when SH-SY5Y cells
are cultured in a low glucose medium, as well as when differentiated ReNcell VM
cells or primary mouse neurons are treated with the hexokinase inhibitor,
2-deoxy-d-glucose, indicating that a functional glycolytic pathway is required
for this protective effect. In conclusion, microRNA-7, by down-regulating RelA,
augments Glut3 expression, promotes glycolysis, and subsequently prevents
MPP(+)-induced cell death. This protective effect of microRNA-7 could be
exploited to correct the defects in oxidative phosphorylation in Parkinson
disease.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMID: 25814668  [PubMed - in process]


261. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):514-20. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.025. Epub 2015 Mar 6.

Randomized, controlled pilot trial of solifenacin succinate for overactive
bladder in Parkinson's disease.

Zesiewicz TA(1), Evatt M(2), Vaughan CP(3), Jahan I(4), Singer C(5), Ordorica
R(6), Salemi JL(7), Shaw JD(4), Sullivan KL(8); Non-Motor Working Group of the
Parkinson Study Group (PSG).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.
Electronic address: tzesiewi@health.usf.edu. (2)Department of Neurology, Atlanta 
VA Medical Center and Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA. (3)Department of
Medicine, Atlanta VA Medical Center and Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA. (6)Department of
Urology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA. (7)Department of Family and
Community Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. (8)Department
of Epidemiology, Jiann-Ping Hsu College of Public Health, Georgia Southern
University, Statesboro, GA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of solifenacin succinate in Parkinson's
disease (PD) patients suffering from overactive bladder (OAB).
BACKGROUND: Urinary dysfunction is a commonly encountered non-motor feature in PD
that significantly impacts patient quality of life.
DESIGN/METHODS: This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 3-site
study with an open label extension phase to determine the efficacy of solifenacin
succinate in idiopathic PD patients with OAB. Patients were randomized to receive
solifenacin succinate 5-10 mg daily or placebo for 12 weeks followed by an 8-week
open label extension. The primary outcome measure was the change in the mean
number of micturitions per 24 h period. Secondary outcome measures included the
change in the mean number of urinary incontinence episodes and the mean number of
nocturia episodes.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients were randomized in the study. There was no
significant improvement in the primary outcome measure in the double-blind phase,
but there was an improvement in the number of micturitions per 24 h period in the
solifenacin succinate group compared to placebo at a mean dose of 6 mg/day
(p = 0.01). In the open label phase, the mean number of urinary incontinence
episodes per 24 h period decreased (p = 0.03), as did the number of nocturia
episodes per 24 h period (p = 0.01). Adverse events included constipation and
xerostomia, which resolved after treatment was discontinued.
CONCLUSIONS: In this pilot trial, solifenacin succinate treatment led to an
improvement in urinary incontinence, despite persistence in other OAB symptoms.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25814050  [PubMed - in process]


262. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2015 Mar;28(1):11-6. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000047.

Novelty seeking in patients with right- versus left-onset Parkinson disease.

Harris E(1), McNamara P, Durso R.

Author information: 
(1)*Naval Health Research Center, San Diego, California †Boston University School
of Medicine and Veterans Affairs Boston Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts 
‡The Graduate School, Northcentral University, Prescott Valley, Arizona.

OBJECTIVE AND BACKGROUND: In patients with Parkinson disease, the personality
trait "novelty seeking" has been linked to higher-than-normal risk for impulse
control disorders. We measured novelty seeking to test whether side of onset of
Parkinson disease predicted patients' risk for impulsivity.
METHODS: We evaluated 38 patients with Parkinson disease (19 right onset, 19 left
onset) and 44 community-dwelling neurotypical controls. All participants
completed demographic and mood measures and the Temperament and Character
Inventory personality questionnaire. The right- and left-onset groups were nearly
the same in background and clinical variables, including use of dopamine
agonists.
RESULTS: The patients with right-onset disease exhibited significantly higher
levels of novelty seeking than the patients with left-onset disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that patients with right-onset Parkinson disease
who are taking dopamine agonists and who exhibit high novelty seeking are at
greater risk for developing impulse control disorders than are patients with left
onset who are also taking dopamine agonists.

PMID: 25812126  [PubMed - in process]


263. Br J Neurosurg. 2015 Mar 26:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Long-term follow-up of bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation in Chinese
Parkinson's disease patients.

Li J(1), Zhang Y, Li Y.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Functional Neurosurgery, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical
University , Beijing , P. R. China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The long-term benefits of deep bilateral brain
stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in patients with advanced
Parkinson's disease (PD) are less well described, especially in Chinese cohorts. 
Here, we present a large group of Chinese PD patients treated with bilateral STN 
DBS.
METHODS: Between 2003 and 2010, 195 consecutive PD patients received implants at 
the Xuanwu Hospital affiliated to the Capital Medical University in Beijing
(China) for bilateral STN DBS. The mean age at implantation was 58.2 ± 10.0
years, and they had a 5- to 15-year history of PD (mean: 6.8 years). Patients
were assessed with the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) at 1, 3, 
and 5 years, both on and off medication.
RESULTS: Except for speech, patients' off-medication motor function scores at 5
years improved by 60.3% (P < 0.001) and those for activities of daily living
improved by 54.2% (P < 0.001). With the exception of dyskinesia, on-medication
motor function scores did not improve 1 year after surgery. On-medication
akinesia, speech, postural stability, and freezing of gait worsened between years
1 and 5 (all P < 0.001). At 5 years, dopaminergic treatment dose and the duration
and severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesia were reduced compared with baseline
(all P < 0.001). There was one death associated with surgery to implant the STN
DBS.
CONCLUSIONS: PD patients who were treated with bilateral STN DBS exhibited marked
motor function improvements over long-term follow-up while off medication and in 
dyskinesia while on medication.

PMID: 25812021  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


264. Neurourol Urodyn. 2015 Mar 25. doi: 10.1002/nau.22764. [Epub ahead of print]

A guideline for the management of bladder dysfunction in Parkinson's disease and 
other gait disorders.

Sakakibara R(1), Panicker J, Finazzi-Agro E, Iacovelli V, Bruschini H;
Parkinson's Disease Subcomittee, The Neurourology Promotion Committee in The
International Continence Society.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology, Internal Medicine, Sakura Medical Center, Toho University, Sakura, 
Japan.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder, and lower
urinary tract (LUT) dysfunction is one of the most common autonomic disorders
with an estimated incidence rate of 27-80%. Studies have shown that bladder
dysfunction significantly influences quality-of-life (QOL) measures, early
institutionalisation, and health economics. We review the pathophysiology of
bladder dysfunction in PD, lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), objective
assessment, and treatment options. In patients with PD, disruption of the
dopamine D1-GABAergic direct pathway may lead to LUTS. Overactive bladder (OAB)
is the most common LUT symptom in PD patients, and an objective assessment using 
urodynamics commonly shows detrusor overactivity (DO) in these patients. The
post-void residual (PVR) volume is minimal in PD, which differs significantly
from multiple system atrophy (MSA) patients who have a more progressive disease
that leads to urinary retention. However, subclinical detrusor weakness during
voiding may also occur in PD. Regarding bladder management, there are no large,
double-blind, prospective studies in this area. It is well recognised that
dopaminergic drugs can improve or worsen LUTS in PD patients. Therefore, an
add-on therapy with anticholinergics is required. Beta-3 adrenergic agonists are 
a potential treatment option because there are little to no central cognitive
events. Newer interventions, such as deep brain stimulation (DBS), are expected
to improve bladder dysfunction in PD. Botulinum toxin injections can be used to
treat intractable urinary incontinence in PD. Transurethral resection of the
prostate gland (TURP) for comorbid BPH in PD is now recognised to be not
contraindicated if MSA is excluded. Collaboration of urologists with neurologists
is highly recommended to maximise a patients' bladder-associated QOL. Neurourol. 
Urodynam. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25810035  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


265. J Sleep Res. 2015 Mar 22. doi: 10.1111/jsr.12289. [Epub ahead of print]

Obstructive sleep apnea and risk of Parkinson's disease: a population-based
cohort study.

Chen JC(1), Tsai TY, Li CY, Hwang JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Dalin Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical
Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan; School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien,
Taiwan.

Sleep disorders could be associated with neurodegenerative diseases. This study
aimed to determine the risk of Parkinson's disease in patients with obstructive
sleep apnea. The incident cases of newly diagnosed obstructive sleep apnea were
identified between 2000 and 2009 from the medical claims database of National
Health Institute of Taiwan. The risk of Parkinson's disease onset at least 1 year
after the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea was measured during and up to
11 years of period, compared to that of age- and gender-matched controls
estimated in the same period. A total of 5864 patients with newly diagnosed
obstructive sleep apnea and 23 269 subjects without obstructive sleep apnea were 
identified for data analysis. The study reported that the incidence of
Parkinson's disease in the obstructive sleep apnea cohort was approximately two
times higher than that in the control cohort (2.57 versus 1.32 per 1000
person-years), with an adjusted hazard ratio of 1.84. Furthermore, the risk of
Parkinson's disease was particularly greater for the obstructive sleep apnea with
insomnia subgroup (adjusted hazard ratio = 1.97, 95% confidence
interval = 1.44-2.69) than for the control cohort. The sex-age-specific analysis 
further discovered that the most elevated risk of Parkinson's disease onset was
noted in female obstructive sleep apnea patients aged 50-69 years (adjusted
hazard ratio = 2.82). This population-based study indicated that patients with
obstructive sleep apnea, especially those who suffered from insomnia, are at an
increased risk of Parkinson's disease onset.

© 2015 European Sleep Research Society.

PMID: 25810019  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


266. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2015 Mar 24. pii: 0891988715573534. [Epub ahead of
print]

Apathy in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Recommendations on the Design of Clinical
Trials.

Cummings J(1), Friedman JH(2), Garibaldi G(3), Jones M(4), Macfadden W(3), Marsh 
L(5), Robert PH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las Vegas, NV, USA
cumminj@ccf.org. (2)Department of Neurology, Movement Disorders Program, Butler
Hospital, Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(3)Clinical Development, Neurosciences, F. Hoffman-La Roche AG, Basel,
Switzerland. (4)Bridge Medical Consulting Ltd, London, United Kingdom. (5)Mental 
Health Care Line, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston,
TX, USA Menninger Department of Psychiatry, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
TX, USA Department of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA. (6)CoBTeK, Research Memory Center CMRR CHU, University of
Sophia Antipolis, Nice, France.

Apathy is a common feature of neurodegenerative disorders but is difficult to
study in a clinical trial setting due to practical and conceptual barriers.
Principal challenges include a paucity of data regarding apathy in these
disorders, an absence of established diagnostic criteria, the presence of
confounding factors (eg, coexisting depression), use of concomitant medications, 
and an absence of a gold-standard apathy assessment scale. Based on a literature 
search and ongoing collaboration among the authors, we present recommendations
for the design of future clinical trials of apathy, suggesting Alzheimer disease 
and Parkinson disease as models with relevance across a wider array of
neuropsychiatric disorders. Recommendations address clarification of the targeted
study population (apathy diagnosis and severity at baseline), confounding factors
(mood/cognition, behavior, and treatment), outcome measures, study duration, use 
of comparators and considerations around environment, and the role of the
caregiver and patient assent. This review contributes to the search for an
optimal approach to study treatment of apathy in neuropsychiatric disorders.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25809634  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


267. Neurology. 2015 Apr 21;84(16):1669-72. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001500. Epub
2015 Mar 25.

Causes of withdrawal of duodenal levodopa infusion in advanced Parkinson disease.

Calandrella D(1), Romito LM(1), Elia AE(1), Del Sorbo F(1), Bagella CF(1),
Falsitta M(1), Albanese A(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Neurologia I (D.C., L.M.R., A.E.E., F.D.S., C.F.B., A.A.), Istituto
Neurologico Carlo Besta, Milano; Istituto di Neurologia (L.M.R., A.E.E., F.D.S., 
C.F.B., A.A.), Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milano; and Endoscopia
Diagnostica e Chirurgia Endoscopica (M.F.), Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milano,
Italy. (2)From Neurologia I (D.C., L.M.R., A.E.E., F.D.S., C.F.B., A.A.),
Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, Milano; Istituto di Neurologia (L.M.R., A.E.E.,
F.D.S., C.F.B., A.A.), Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milano; and
Endoscopia Diagnostica e Chirurgia Endoscopica (M.F.), Istituto Nazionale Tumori,
Milano, Italy. alberto.albanese@unicatt.it.

OBJECTIVE: We performed a real-life observation of patients with Parkinson
disease (PD) who received duodenal levodopa infusion (DLI) to determine which
adverse events caused treatment discontinuation and when such events occurred.
METHODS: All consecutive patients with PD treated at the Carlo Besta Neurological
Institute were included. The patients were evaluated at baseline and after DLI at
regular intervals. Their motor condition was assessed and adverse events were
recorded.
RESULTS: Thirty-five patients with PD (15 men and 20 women) were included. They
received DLI implants between October 2007 and September 2013. Four patients died
of causes unrelated to the procedure. At the end of the study, 21 patients (60%) 
were still on treatment. DLI provided efficacious motor control in all patients. 
Discontinuation was most frequently caused by device- or infusion-related adverse
events. Ten patients of the remaining 31 discontinued DLI. There were 2 main
causes of withdrawal: stoma infection (4 patients), and worsening of dyskinesias 
not manageable with infusion reduction (3 patients). In most patients,
discontinuations occurred during the first year after implant. Risk of
discontinuation was related to age at implant, but no other demographic or
clinical variables.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified 2 main causes leading to DLI withdrawal during the
first year postimplant and suggest adopting measures to prevent such occurrences.
Elderly patients are at higher risk of treatment discontinuation.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25809301  [PubMed - in process]


268. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):705-13. doi: 10.1002/mds.26223. Epub 2015 Mar 21.

International validation of a behavioral scale in Parkinson's disease without
dementia.

Rieu I(1), Martinez-Martin P, Pereira B, De Chazeron I, Verhagen Metman L,
Jahanshahi M, Ardouin C, Chéreau I, Brefel-Courbon C, Ory-Magne F, Klinger H,
Peyrol F, Schupbach M, Dujardin K, Tison F, Houeto JL, Krack P, Durif F.

Author information: 
(1)CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Neurology Department; CHU Gabriel Montpied,
Clermont-Ferrand, France; Université Clermont 1, UFR Medecine, EA7280,
Clermont-Ferrand, France.

The "Ardouin Scale of Behavior in Parkinson's Disease" is a new instrument
specifically designed for assessing mood and behavior with a view to quantifying 
changes related to Parkinson's disease, to dopaminergic medication, and to
non-motor fluctuations. This study was aimed at analyzing the psychometric
attributes of this scale in patients with Parkinson's disease without dementia.
In addition to this scale, the following measures were applied: the Unified
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, the Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating
Scale, the Lille Apathy Rating Scale, the Bech and Rafaelsen Mania Scale, the
Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, the MacElroy Criteria, the Patrick Carnes
criteria, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and the Mini-International
Neuropsychiatric Interview. Patients (n = 260) were recruited at 13 centers
across four countries (France, Spain, United Kingdom, and United States).
Cronbach's alpha coefficient for domains ranged from 0.69 to 0.78. Regarding
test-retest reliability, the kappa coefficient for items was higher than 0.4. For
inter-rater reliability, the kappa values were 0.29 to 0.81. Furthermore, most of
the items from the Ardouin Scale of Behavior in Parkinson's Disease correlated
with the corresponding items of the other scales, depressed mood with the
Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (ρ = 0.82); anxiety with the
Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-anxiety (ρ = 0.56); apathy with the Lille
Apathy Rating Scale (ρ = 0.60). The Ardouin Scale of Behavior in Parkinson's
disease is an acceptable, reproducible, valid, and precise assessment for
evaluating changes in behavior in patients with Parkinson's disease without
dementia. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25809278  [PubMed - in process]


269. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 25. doi: 10.1002/mds.26214. [Epub ahead of print]

Objective assessment of postural stability in Parkinson's disease using mobile
technology.

Ozinga SJ(1), Machado AG, Miller Koop M, Rosenfeldt AB, Alberts JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA; Department of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, 
Cleveland State University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

A significant gap remains in the ability to effectively characterize postural
instability in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Clinical evaluation of
postural declines is largely subjective, whereas objective biomechanical
approaches are expensive and time consuming, thus limiting clinical adoption.
Recent advances in mobile devices present an opportunity to address the gap in
the quantification of postural stability. The aim of this project was to
determine whether kinematic data measured by hardware within a tablet device, a
3(rd) generation iPad, was of sufficient quantity and quality to characterize
postural stability. Seventeen patients and 17 age-matched controls completed six 
balance conditions under altered surface, stance, and vision. Simultaneous
kinematic measurements were gathered from a three-dimensional motion capture
system and tablet. The motion capture system and tablet provided similar measures
of stability across groups. In particular, within the patient population,
correlation between the two systems for peak-to-peak, normalized path length,
root mean square, 95% volume, and total power values ranged from 0.66 to 1.00.
Kinematic data from five balance conditions-double-leg stance with eyes open on a
foam surface, double-leg stance with eyes closed on firm and foam surfaces, and
tandem stance on firm and foam surfaces-were capable of discriminating patients
from controls. The hardware within the tablet provides data of sufficient
accuracy for the quantification of postural stability in patients with
Parkinson's disease. The objectivity, portability, and ease of use of this device
make it ideal for use in clinical environments lacking sophisticated
biomechanical systems. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25809137  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


270. Muscle Nerve. 2015 Mar 25. doi: 10.1002/mus.24663. [Epub ahead of print]

F-wave and motor-evoked potentials during motor imagery and observation in
apraxia of Parkinson disease.

Gündüz A(1), Kızıltan ME.

Author information: 
(1)Istanbul University, Cerrahpasa School of Medicine, Department of Neurology.

INTRODUCTION: The amplitudes of F-waves and motor-evoked potentials (MEP)
increase during imagination or active motor performance. The aim of this study
was to investigate F-wave and MEP facilitation during the assessment of apraxia.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Eight Parkinson disease (PD) patients with apraxia, 11
patients without apraxia, and eight healthy volunteers were enrolled. F-waves and
MEPs were recorded during 4 states (resting, imagination, observation, and active
movement).
RESULTS: The mean amplitude of the F-waves increased significantly during
imagination and active movement compared with at rest in healthy individuals (P =
0.028) and the nonapraxia group (P = 0.005). PD patients with apraxia did not
have similar facilitation. The mean amplitude of the MEPs also showed a similar
loss of facilitation in PD with apraxia.
CONCLUSIONS: Loss of facilitation during the preparation for movement is closely 
related to the gold standard clinical praxis battery. This provides additional
support and a potential electrophysiological assessment method for apraxia in PD.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25809124  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


271. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 21. doi: 10.1002/mds.26213. [Epub ahead of print]

Nonmotor symptoms in healthy Ashkenazi Jewish carriers of the G2019S mutation in 
the LRRK2 gene.

Mirelman A(1), Alcalay RN, Saunders-Pullman R, Yasinovsky K, Thaler A, Gurevich
T, Mejia-Santana H, Raymond D, Gana-Weisz M, Bar-Shira A, Ozelius L, Clark L,
Orr-Urtreger A, Bressman S, Marder K, Giladi N; LRRK2 AJ consortium.

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, Tel-Aviv Medical Center,
Department of Neurology, Israel.

BACKGROUND: The asymptomatic carriers of the Leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)
G2019S mutation represent a population at risk for developing PD. The aim of this
study was to assess differences in nonmotor symptoms between nonmanifesting
carriers and noncarriers of the G2019S mutation.
METHODS: Two hundred fifty-three subjects participated in this observational
cross-sectional multicenter study. Standard questionnaires assessing anxiety,
depression, cognition, smell, nonmotor symptoms, and rapid eye movement (REM)
sleep behavior were administered. Analyses were adjusted for age, sex, family
relations, education, and site.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty-four carriers were identified. Carriers had higher
nonmotor symptoms score on the Nonmotor symptoms (NMS) questionnaire (P = 0.02). 
These findings were amplified in carriers older than age 50 y, with higher
nonmotor symptoms scores and trait anxiety scores (P < 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: In this cross-section study, carriers of the G2019S LRRK2 mutation
endorsed subtle nonmotor symptoms. Whether these are early features of PD will
require a longitudinal study. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25809001  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


272. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 24. doi: 10.1002/mds.26172. [Epub ahead of print]

Cerebrospinal fluid Aβ42 levels and APP processing pathway genes in Parkinson's
disease.

Bekris LM(1), Tsuang DW, Peskind ER, Yu CE, Montine TJ, Zhang J, Zabetian CP,
Leverenz JB.

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic
Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Of recent interest is the finding that certain cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
biomarkers traditionally linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD), specifically amyloid
beta protein (Aβ), are abnormal in PD CSF. The aim of this exploratory
investigation was to determine whether genetic variation within the amyloid
precursor protein (APP) processing pathway genes correlates with CSF Aβ42 levels 
in Parkinson's disease (PD). Parkinson's disease (n = 86) and control (n = 161)
DNA were genotyped for 19 regulatory region tagging single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) within nine genes (APP, ADAM10, BACE1, BACE2, PSEN1, PSEN2, 
PEN2, NCSTN, and APH1B) involved in the cleavage of APP. The SNP genotypes were
tested for their association with CSF biomarkers and PD risk while adjusting for 
age, sex, and APOE ɛ4 status. Significant correlation with CSF Aβ42 levels in PD 
was observed for two SNPs, (APP rs466448 and APH1B rs2068143). Conversely,
significant correlation with CSF Aβ42 levels in controls was observed for three
SNPs (APP rs214484, rs2040273, and PSEN1 rs362344). In addition, results of this 
exploratory investigation suggest that an APP SNP and an APH1B SNP are marginally
associated with PD CSF Aβ42 levels in APOE ɛ4 noncarriers. Further hypotheses
generated include that decreased CSF Aβ42 levels are in part driven by genetic
variation in APP processing genes. Additional investigation into the relationship
between these findings and clinical characteristics of PD, including cognitive
impairment, compared with other neurodegenerative diseases, such as AD, are
warranted. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25808939  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


273. Lege Artis Med. 2014 Nov;24(10-11):558-60.

[Music therapy for patients with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Hungarian]

János K.

PMID: 25807818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Neuroophthalmol. 2015 Mar 24. [Epub ahead of print]

Correlation Between Structural and Functional Retinal Changes in Parkinson
Disease.

Kaur M(1), Saxena R, Singh D, Behari M, Sharma P, Menon V.

Author information: 
(1)Squint and Neuro-Ophthalmology Section, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for
Ophthalmic Sciences (MK, RS, DS, PS, VM), All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, India; and Department of Neurology (MB), Neurosciences
Centre, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate structural changes in the retina and correlate those with
visual function measurements in patients with Parkinson disease (PD).
METHODS: A cross-sectional comparative study of 20 patients with PD and 20
age-matched healthy controls was conducted. Visual acuity, color vision, contrast
sensitivity, visual fields, pattern visual-evoked response (VER), and multifocal 
electroretinogram were recorded to determine functional change, whereas
structural changes were evaluated with retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL)
thickness, macular thickness, macular volume, and ganglion cell-inner plexiform
layer complex (GCL-IPL) thickness using spectral domain ocular coherence
tomography (SD-OCT).
RESULTS: PD patients ranged from Stage 1-3, with median Stage 2 (Hoehn and Yahr
Classification) with mean Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale III score of 19 
± 10.42, and average disease duration of 5.8 ± 2.78 years. Visual acuity, color
vision, and visual fields were unaffected but contrast sensitivity was
significantly worse than controls (P < 0.001). Multifocal electroretinogram
values in the central 2° field revealed decreased foveal electrical activity,
with increased pattern VER amplitude and latency. Significant RNFL thinning was
observed in the average RNFL (P = 0.033), superior (P = 0.018), and temporal (P =
0.036) quadrants. Significant ganglion cell layer loss was captured on SD-OCT
with average, minimum GCL-IPL, and all 6 sectors showing thinning (P ≤ 0.003).
The functional changes correlated significantly with structural changes, disease 
duration, and severity. There was no correlation between structural changes in
the retina and disease duration or severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Subclinical visual dysfunction was observed in patients with PD with
good structural-functional correlation. GCL-IPL thinning may be a more reliable
parameter than RNFL thickness for structural alterations of the retina in
patients with PD.

PMID: 25807477  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


275. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 25;10(3):e0121251. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0121251.
eCollection 2015.

Differences in muscle strength in parkinsonian patients affected on the right and
left side.

Frazzitta G(1), Ferrazzoli D(2), Maestri R(3), Rovescala R(4), Guaglio G(4), Bera
R(2), Volpe D(5), Pezzoli G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parkinson Disease and Brain Injury Rehabilitation,
"Moriggia-Pelascini" Hospital, Gravedona ed Uniti, Italy; Fondazione Europea
Ricerca Biomedica (FERB), "S.Isidoro" Hospital, Trescore Balneario, Italy.
(2)Department of Parkinson Disease and Brain Injury Rehabilitation,
"Moriggia-Pelascini" Hospital, Gravedona ed Uniti, Italy. (3)Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Scientific Institute of Montescano, S. Maugeri
Foundation, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS),
Montescano, Italy. (4)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Scientific Institute of 
Montescano, S. Maugeri Foundation, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere
Scientifico (IRCCS), Montescano, Italy. (5)Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, "S. Raffaele Arcangelo Fatebenefratelli" Hospital, Venezia,
Italy. (6)Parkinson Institute, Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Milano,
Italy.

BACKGROUND: Muscular weakness is a frequent cause of instability that contributes
to falls in Parkinson's disease (PD). Isokinetic dynamometry is a method of
muscle assessment useful to measure the muscular strength giving a quantification
of the weakness, but only few studies about isokinetic assessment were performed 
in PD. The aims of the study were to evaluate the muscle strength in PD and to
investigate the differences in patients affected on the right and left side.
METHODS: Knee flexor and extensor muscles strength was assessed using an
isokinetic dynamometer in 25 patients in stage 3 H&Y and in 15 healthy controls. 
Subjects were tested in both legs at three fixed angular velocities: 90°/s,
120°/s, 180°/s.
RESULTS: Considering the whole population of Parkinsonians, no difference in
strength was observed with respect to controls. Considering the side, patients
affected on the right side showed a clear tendency to be weaker than patients
affected on the left side and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: PD patients affected on the right side, but not those affected on
the left side, had a reduction in muscle strength as compared to controls. We
postulate a central origin deficit in muscle strength in PD. It is known that
dopamine transporter binding is more severely reduced in the left posterior
putamen and our results suggest that the control of the muscle strength in PD is 
linked to the right-left hemispheric asymmetry of the functional organization of 
basal ganglia and with their connections to cortical motor and pre-motor areas.

PMCID: PMC4373899
PMID: 25806509  [PubMed - in process]


276. Front Neurosci. 2015 Mar 9;9:59. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2015.00059. eCollection 2015.

Features of alpha-synuclein that could explain the progression and
irreversibility of Parkinson's disease.

Gallegos S(1), Pacheco C(1), Peters C(1), Opazo CM(2), Aguayo LG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurophysiology, Department of Physiology, University of
Concepcion Concepcio, Chile. (2)Oxidation Biology Laboratory, The Florey
Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne Melbourne,
VIC, Australia.

Alpha-synuclein is a presynaptic protein expressed throughout the central nervous
system, and it is the main component of Lewy bodies, one of the histopathological
features of Parkinson's disease (PD) which is a progressive and irreversible
neurodegenerative disorder. The conformational flexibility of α-synuclein allows 
it to adopt different conformations, i.e., bound to membranes or form aggregates,
the oligomers are believed to be the more toxic species. In this review, we will 
focus on two major features of α-synuclein, transmission and toxicity, that could
help to understand the pathological characteristics of PD. One important feature 
of α-synuclein is its ability to be transmitted from neuron to neuron using
mechanisms such as endocytosis, plasma membrane penetration or through exosomes, 
thus propagating the Lewy body pathology to different brain regions thereby
contributing to the progressiveness of PD. The second feature of α-synuclein is
that it confers cytotoxicity to recipient cells, principally when it is in an
oligomeric state. This form causes mitochondrial dysfunction, endoplasmic
reticulum stress, oxidative stress, proteasome impairment, disruption of plasma
membrane and pore formation that lead to apoptosis pathway activation and
consequent cell death. The complexity of α-synuclein oligomerization and
formation of toxic species could be a major factor for the irreversibility of PD 
and could also explain the lack of successful therapies to halt the disease.

PMCID: PMC4353246
PMID: 25805964  [PubMed]


277. Cortex. 2015 Mar 4. pii: S0010-9452(15)00069-6. doi:
10.1016/j.cortex.2015.02.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Social intentions in Parkinson's disease patients: A kinematic study.

Straulino E(1), Scaravilli T(2), Castiello U(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Psicologia Generale, Università di Padova, Padova, Italy.
(2)Unità Operativa di Neurologia Ospedale di Dolo USL13, Venezia, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Psicologia Generale, Università di Padova, Padova, Italy;
Cognitive Neuroscience Center, University of Padova, Italy; Centro Linceo
Interdisciplinare Beniamino Segre, Accademia dei Lincei, Roma, Italy. Electronic 
address: umberto.castiello@unipd.it.

Dysfunction of the dopaminergic system leads to motor, cognitive and motivational
symptoms in brain disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Moreover, the
dopaminergic system plays an important role in social interactions. The
dopaminergic input to the basal ganglia (BG) thought to integrate social cues
during the planning and execution of voluntary movements remains, however,
largely unexplored. Since PD provides a model to assess this function in humans, 
our study aimed to investigate the effects of social intentions on actions in
non-demented PDpatients receiving dopamine replacement therapy
(Levodopa = l-Dopa) and in neurologically healthy control participants. Patients'
ability to modulate motor patterning depending on the intention motivating the
action to be performed was evaluated both in "on" (with l-Dopa) and "off"
(without l-Dopa) states. Participants were instructed to reach for and to grasp
an object; they were then told to hand it to another person (social condition) or
to place it on a concave frame (individual condition). A 'passive-observer'
condition, which was similar to the 'individual' condition except for the
presence of an onlooker who simply observed the scene, was also assessed to
exclude the possibility that differences might be due to the presence of another 
person. Movement kinematics were recorded using a three-dimensional motion
analysis system. Study results demonstrated that the controls and the PD patients
in an 'on' state adopted different kinematic patterning for the 'social' and the 
'individual' conditions; the PD patients in the 'off' state, instead, were unable
to kinematically differentiate between the two conditions. These results suggest 
that l-Dopa treatment has positive effects on translating social intentions into 
specific motor patterns in PD patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25804938  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


278. Int J Cardiol. 2015 Mar 19;186:41-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.03.231. [Epub
ahead of print]

Successful radiofrequency ablation of a parahisian accessory pathway from the
right coronary cusp.

Liao Z(1), Zhan X(1), Wu S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong
General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, 510080 Guangdong, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong
General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, 510080 Guangdong, China.
Electronic address: shulin_gdgh@163.com.

PMID: 25804466  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


279. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Jul 1;287:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.026. Epub 2015
Mar 21.

Distal motor deficit contributions to postural instability and gait disorder in
Parkinson's disease.

Vervoort G(1), Bengevoord A(2), Nackaerts E(3), Heremans E(4), Vandenberghe W(5),
Nieuwboer A(6).

Author information: 
(1)KU Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic 
address: griet.vervoort@faber.kuleuven.be. (2)KU Leuven, Department of
Rehabilitation Sciences, Leuven, Belgium; Radboud Universiteit Nijmegen, Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
aniek.bengevoord@faber.kuleuven.be. (3)KU Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation
Sciences, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address:
evelien.nackaerts@faber.kuleuven.be. (4)KU Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation
Sciences, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: elke.heremans@faber.kuleuven.be.
(5)University Hospitals Leuven, Department of Neurology, Leuven, Belgium.
Electronic address: wim.vandenberghe@uzleuven.be. (6)KU Leuven, Department of
Rehabilitation Sciences, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address:
alice.nieuwboer@faber.kuleuven.be.

Clinical subtypes in Parkinson's disease (PD) are often based on the presence of 
clustered motor symptoms. In contrast to the tremor dominant (TD) subtype, the
postural instability and gait disorder (PIGD) subtype is characterized by
predominantly axial motor involvement and increased cognitive impairment. It is, 
however, unclear if subtypes represent distinct underlying neuropathological
mechanisms or reflect more severe disease progression. We aimed to clarify the
validity of PD subtypes by investigating behavioral outcomes at multiple levels. 
Therefore, spatiotemporal kinematics of gait, upper and lower limb repetitive
movements in combination with a balance and cognitive assessment were recorded in
73 patients with PD. We classified patients as PIGD (n=43), TD (n=22) or
indeterminate (n=8) while 'off' medication and recruited 20 age-matched controls.
Surprisingly, differences between PIGD and TD were more prominent during
repetitive distal motor tasks than during gait. Gait impairment in PIGD was only 
shown by reduced step length and gait speed. However, motor scaling and
coordination of distal movements were more affected in PIGD than in TD patients. 
PIGD patients also had impaired postural control compared to TD patients as shown
by lower mini-BESTest scores. There were no cognitive differences between patient
subgroups. Distal movement was not significantly different in TD patients from
controls, except for greater movement asymmetry. The results indicate a
widespread impairment within PIGD with more pronounced distal than axial motor
deficits. This suggests involvement of different neurotransmitter systems in the 
neuropathology of PD subtypes, which are at least partially independent of
disease progression.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25804361  [PubMed - in process]


280. Can J Neurol Sci. 2015 Mar;42(2):96-105. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2015.8.

Canadian perspectives on the clinical actionability of neuroimaging in disorders 
of consciousness.

Lee G(1), Byram AC(1), Owen AM(2), Ribary U(3), Stoessl AJ(1), Townson A(4),
Stables C(5), Illes J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1National Core for Neuroethics,Division of Neurology,Department of
Medicine,University of British Columbia,Vancouver,Canada. (2)2The Brain and Mind 
Institute,University of Western Ontario,London,Canada. (3)3Behavioural and
Cognitive Neuroscience Institute,Simon Fraser University,Burnaby,Canada.
(4)5Division of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,Department of Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine,University of British Columbia,Vancouver,Canada. (5)4Pacific 
Parkinson's Research Centre and National Parkinson Foundation Centre of
Excellence,Vancouver,Canada.

BACKGROUND: Acquired brain injury is a critical public health and socioeconomic
problem in Canada, leaving many patients in vegetative, minimally conscious, or
locked-in states, unresponsive and unable to communicate. Recent advances in
neuroimaging research have demonstrated residual consciousness in a few exemplary
patients with acquired brain injury, suggesting potential misdiagnosis and
changes in prognosis. Such progress, in parallel with research using multimodal
brain imaging technologies in recent years, has promising implications for
clinical translation, notwithstanding the many challenges that impact health care
and policy development. This study explored the perspectives of Canadian
professionals with expertise either in neuroimaging research, disorders of
consciousness, or both, on the potential clinical applications and implications
of imaging technology.
METHODS: Twenty-two professionals from designated communities of neuroimaging
researchers, ethicists, lawyers, and practitioners participated in semistructured
interviews. Data were analyzed for emergent themes.
RESULTS: The five most dominant themes were: (1) validation and calibration of
the methods; (2) informed consent; (3) burdens on the health care system; (4)
implications for the Canadian health care system; and (5) possibilities for
improved prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Movement of neuroimaging from research into clinical care for
acquired brain injury will require careful consideration of legal and ethical
issues alongside research reliability, responsible distribution of health care
resources, and the interaction of technological capabilities with patient
outcome.

PMID: 25804248  [PubMed - in process]


281. Can J Neurol Sci. 2015 Mar;42(2):74-87. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2015.13.

Saskatchewan movement disorders program.

Rajput AH(1), Rajput A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Saskatchewan Movement Disorders Program,Neurology Division,University of
Saskatchewan and Saskatoon Health Region.

We review the Saskatchewan Movement Disorders Program, which started in 1968 and 
has had the dual goals of patient care and research. The clinics are structured
to collect research-worthy data including videos, longitudinal follow-up, and
autopsy studies of patients seen in the clinics. At every clinic visit, the
patient is evaluated by one or both authors. A total of 25% to 30% of the
deceased come to autopsy. Frozen half-brain and formalin-fixed remnants from
autopsy are preserved in our laboratories. Patients not seen in our clinic are
not included in research, which makes it different from brain banks. So far, 515 
cases have come to autopsy. So far, there have been 17 collaborating scientific
teams from Canada, the United States, Europe, and Japan. The collaborators are
not charged for access to our resources. This program offers a unique opportunity
to study multiple aspects of movement disorder patients seen in clinical
practice.

PMCID: PMC4416358
PMID: 25804247  [PubMed - in process]


282. JMIR Res Protoc. 2015 Mar 6;4(1):e30. doi: 10.2196/resprot.4044.

Web-based telemonitoring and delivery of caregiver support for patients with
Parkinson disease after deep brain stimulation: protocol.

Marceglia S(1), Rossi E, Rosa M, Cogiamanian F, Rossi L, Bertolasi L, Vogrig A,
Pinciroli F, Barbieri S, Priori A.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Center for Neurostimulation, Neurotechnology, and Movement Disorders,
Fondazione IRCCS Ca'Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy.
sara.marceglia@policlinico.mi.it.

BACKGROUND: The increasing number of patients, the high costs of management, and 
the chronic progress of the disease that prevents patients from performing even
simple daily activities make Parkinson disease (PD) a complex pathology with a
high impact on society. In particular, patients implanted with deep brain
stimulation (DBS) electrodes face a highly fragile stabilization period,
requiring specific support at home. However, DBS patients are followed usually by
untrained personnel (caregivers or family), without specific care pathways and
supporting systems.
OBJECTIVE: This projects aims to (1) create a reference consensus guideline and a
shared requirements set for the homecare and monitoring of DBS patients, (2)
define a set of biomarkers that provides alarms to caregivers for continuous home
monitoring, and (3) implement an information system architecture allowing
communication between health care professionals and caregivers and improving the 
quality of care for DBS patients.
METHODS: The definitions of the consensus care pathway and of caregiver needs
will be obtained by analyzing the current practices for patient follow-up through
focus groups and structured interviews involving health care professionals,
patients, and caregivers. The results of this analysis will be represented in a
formal graphical model of the process of DBS patient care at home. To define the 
neurophysiological biomarkers to be used to raise alarms during the monitoring
process, neurosignals will be acquired from DBS electrodes through a new
experimental system that records while DBS is turned ON and transmits signals by 
radiofrequency. Motor, cognitive, and behavioral protocols will be used to study 
possible feedback/alarms to be provided by the system. Finally, a set of mobile
apps to support the caregiver at home in managing and monitoring the patient will
be developed and tested in the community of caregivers that participated in the
focus groups. The set of developed apps will be connected to the already existing
WebBioBank Web-based platform allowing health care professionals to manage
patient electronic health records and neurophysiological signals. New modules in 
the WebBioBank platform will be implemented to allow integration and data
exchange with mobile health apps.
RESULTS: The results of this project will provide a novel approach to long-term
evaluation of patients with chronic, severe conditions in the homecare
environment, based on caregiver empowerment and tailored applications developed
according to consensus care pathways established by clinicians.
CONCLUSIONS: The creation of a direct communication channel between health care
professionals and caregivers can benefit large communities of patients and would 
represent a scalable experience in integrating data and information coming from a
clinical setting to those in home monitoring.

PMCID: PMC4376163
PMID: 25803512  [PubMed]


283. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2015 Mar 24. [Epub ahead of print]

Treadmill Training Improves Forward and Backward Gait in Early Parkinson Disease.

Tseng IJ(1), Yuan RY, Jeng C.

Author information: 
(1)From the School of Gerontology Health Management, College of Nursing, Taipei
Medical University (I-JT); Department of Neurology, Taipei Medical University
Hospital (R-YY); and Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, College of
Medicine (R-YY), and Graduate Institute of Nursing, College of Nursing (CJ),
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine effects of treadmill training
(TT) and lasting duration of training effects on forward walking (FW) and
backward walking (BW) gait in Parkinson disease (PD).
DESIGN: Twenty-six early PD patients undertook a 12-wk intensive TT program using
FW. A repeated-measures design compared GAITRite-measured FW and BW gait before
TT, within 1 wk, and at 4 and 12 wks after TT.
RESULTS: Twenty-three PD patients, after completing TT, walked forward and
backward with increased velocity, enlarged stride length, prolonged swing phase, 
and decreased double support phase; improvements occurred within 1 wk and
remained at 4 and 12 wks after training (P < 0.01 or < 0.001). In addition,
trends toward reduced posttraining swing time variability and stride length
variability occurred in both directions and sustained for 12 wks. Posttraining FW
and BW gait improvements were comparable. BW deficits, regardless of training,
constantly exceeded FW deficits. Cadence did not differ before and after training
in FW (P = 0.195) and BW (P = 0.229) and between FW and BW irrespective of TT (P 
= 0.124).
CONCLUSIONS: A 12-wk TT program improves the 12-wk duration of FW and BW gait and
can be considered a part of a rehabilitation strategy to overcome gait
disturbances in early PD.

PMID: 25802958  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


284. Neurology. 2015 Mar 24;84(12):1285-6. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001408.

Predictors of dementia in Parkinson disease: A prospective cohort study.

Kawada T(1), Anang JB(2), Postuma R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo, Japan. (2)Montreal, Canada.

PMID: 25802273  [PubMed - in process]


285. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2015 Mar 20. pii: S1044-7431(15)00042-1. doi:
10.1016/j.mcn.2015.03.013. [Epub ahead of print]

Glucocerebrosidase and Parkinson disease: Recent advances.

Schapira AH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, UCL Institute of Neurology, UCL Royal
Free Campus, Rowland Hill Street, London NW3 2PF, United Kingdom. Electronic
address: a.schapira@ucl.ac.uk.

Mutations of the glucocerebrosidase (GBA) gene are the most important risk factor
yet discovered for Parkinson disease (PD). Homozygous GBA mutations result in
Gaucher disease (GD), a lysosomal storage disorder. Heterozygous mutations have
not until recently been thought to be associated with any pathological process.
However, it is clear that the presence of a GBA mutation in homozygous or
heterozygous form is associated with an approximately 20-fold increase in the
risk for PD, with little if any difference in risk burden related to gene dose.
Most studies suggest that 5-10% of PD patients have GBA mutations, although this 
figure is greater in the Ashkenazi population and may be an underestimate overall
if the entire exome is not sequenced. GBA-associated PD is clinically
indistinguishable from idiopathic PD, except for slightly earlier age of onset
and a greater frequency of cognitive impairment. Pathological and imaging
features, and response to pharmacotherapy are identical to idiopathic PD. GBA
mutations result in reduced enzyme activity and mutant protein may become trapped
in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) leading to unfolded protein response and ER
associated degradation and stress. Both mechanisms may be relevant in GD and PD
pathogenesis and lead to impaired lysosomal function. Of particular relevance to 
PD is the interaction of glucocerebrosidase enzyme (GCase) with alpha-synuclein
(SNCA). There appears to be a bi-directional reciprocal relationship between
GCase levels and those of SNCA. Thus reduced GCase in GBA mutation PD brain is
associated with increased SNCA, and increased SNCA deposition is associated with 
reduced GCase even in GBA wild-type PD brains. It is noteworthy that GBA
mutations are also associated with an increase in risk for dementia with Lewy
bodies, another synucleinopathy. It has been suggested that the relationship
between GCase and SNCA may be leveraged to reduce SNCA levels in PD by enhancing 
GCase levels and activity. This hypothesis has been confirmed in GBA mutant mice,
PD patient fibroblasts and cells with SNCA overexpression, and offers an
important target pathway for future neuroprotection therapy in PD. This article
is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuronal Protein'.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25802027  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


286. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 18. doi: 10.1002/mds.26209. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkinsonism following neuroleptic exposure: A double-hit hypothesis?

Erro R(1), Bhatia KP, Tinazzi M.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, University
College London (UCL) Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom; Dipartimento
di Scienze Neurologiche e del Movimento, Università di Verona, Italy.

Drug-induced parkinsonism is caused by an offending drug and should resolve after
the causative agent has been withdrawn. However, in a number of patients,
symptoms persist or may even worsen over time, suggesting the development of
concomitant Parkinson's disease. The prevalence estimates of Parkinson's disease 
after neuroleptic exposure are unexpectedly high, suggesting a causal
relationship. We critically review available literature in this regard, and some 
pathophysiological hypotheses that might explain such a relationship are
suggested. Some patients may have an undetermined genetic susceptibility to
parkinsonism. We speculate that the possible neurotoxic effect of neuroleptics
exerted on a susceptible dopaminergic system would lead over the long-term to a
self-fostering, progressive process. Knowledge gaps and future perspectives are
discussed. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25801826  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


287. Autophagy. 2015 Feb;11(2):422-4. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2015.1009792.

Temporal dynamics of PARK2/parkin and OPTN/optineurin recruitment during the
mitophagy of damaged mitochondria.

Wong YC(1), Holzbaur EL.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Physiology ; Perelman School of Medicine ; University of
Pennsylvania ; Philadelphia , PA USA.

Damaged mitochondria are selectively degraded via autophagy in a regulated
pathway known as mitophagy. Parkinson disease-linked proteins PINK1 (PTEN induced
putative kinase 1) and PARK2 (parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase) are
recruited to the outer mitochondrial membrane upon mitochondrial damage, leading 
to the PARK2-mediated ubiquitination of mitochondrial proteins. Here, we discuss 
our recent work demonstrating that OPTN (optineurin) is recruited to damaged
mitochondria, serving as an autophagy receptor for autophagosome formation around
mitochondria. Using high-resolution live-cell imaging, we find that OPTN is
recruited to ubiquitinated mitochondria downstream of PARK2, and induces
autophagosome assembly around mitochondria via its LC3-interacting region.
Mutations in OPTN are linked to both glaucoma and ALS (amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis), and an ALS-associated E478G mutation in OPTN's ubiquitin binding
domain leads to defective mitophagy and accumulation of damaged mitochondria.
Importantly, our results highlight a role for mitophagy defects in ALS
pathogenesis, and demonstrate that defects in the same pathway for mitochondrial 
homeostasis are causal for both familial Parkinson disease and ALS.

PMID: 25801386  [PubMed - in process]


288. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Apr;11(4):184. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2015.39. Epub 2015 Mar 
24.

Parkinson disease: Traumatic brain injury increases the risk of Parkinson
disease.

Chase A.

PMID: 25799936  [PubMed - in process]


289. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Apr;11(4):186. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2015.47. Epub 2015 Mar 
24.

Parkinson disease: Neuropsychiatric and cognitive profiling of patients with
early, untreated Parkinson disease.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 25799933  [PubMed - in process]


290. Seizure. 2015 Mar;26:94-7. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2015.01.016. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Characteristics and acute outcomes of ICU patients with initial presentation of
seizure.

Tobochnik S(1), Gutierrez C(1), Jacobson MP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Temple University School of Medicine, Department of Neurology, 3401 North
Broad Street, Parkinson Pavilion, Suite C525, Philadelphia, PA 19140, United
States. (2)Temple University School of Medicine, Department of Neurology, 3401
North Broad Street, Parkinson Pavilion, Suite C525, Philadelphia, PA 19140,
United States. Electronic address: jacobsm@temple.edu.

PURPOSE: Seizures are a common cause of presentation to the emergency department 
(ED) but vary widely in severity and prognostic significance, with some cases
requiring ICU management. Most evidence regarding seizure outcomes in the ICU
comes from patients exclusively with status epilepticus (SE) or with new seizures
detected after ICU admission. To aid in determining early prognosis of ICU
patients with and without SE, we performed an analysis of patients initially
presenting with any type of seizure and requiring ICU management.
METHOD: Analysis of hospital records of 247 consecutive patients presenting to
the ED initially with seizure and directly admitted to the ICU between January
2010 and June 2013. The primary outcome was composite in-hospital death or
discharge to hospice, and the secondary outcome was recurrent ICU seizures.
RESULTS: The primary outcome occurred in 7.7% of patients. Both early mechanical 
ventilation and an acute intracranial process on neuroimaging were associated
with a poor outcome. About half of this cohort presented with SE. Although SE was
associated with recurrent seizures in the ICU, the primary outcome was similar
between patients presenting with and without SE. Patients with SE had greater
rates of early intubation in the ED and were treated more aggressively with
medication, whereas patients without SE had greater rates of first ever seizure, 
acute intracranial disease including intracranial hemorrhage, and neurosurgical
intervention.
CONCLUSION: Patients presenting to the ED with and without SE requiring ICU
admission may have similar acute outcomes, yet differ in risk factors and seizure
etiologies.

Copyright © 2015 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25799909  [PubMed - in process]


291. Rev Med Suisse. 2015 Jan 14;11(456-457):91-6.

[News in neuroloey 2014].

[Article in French]

Tsetsou S, Rossetti AO, Michel P, Hirt L, Wider C, Benninger D, Kuntzer T, Nater 
B, Démonet JF, Schluep M, Du Pasquier RA, Vingerhoets F.

In 2014, breastfeeding during maternal antiepileptic therapy seems to be safe for
the children and can be recommended. Intravenous thrombolysis by Alteplase
improves the outcome after a stroke if administered within 4.5 hours and it is
also recommended in elderly population over 80 years. ProSavin genic therapy for 
Parkinson disease is under investigation. The Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
(TMS) has an analgesic effect in neuropathic pain as well as an antidepressant
effect. Antagonists of calcitonin gene-related peptide can have a beneficial role
in migraine prevention. Diagnostic biomarker panels for Alzheimer disease are
under investigation. Oral teriflunomide and dimethyl fumarate (BG-12) for
relapsing multiple sclerosis treatment are now available in Switzerland.

PMID: 25799659  [PubMed - in process]


292. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 23;10(3):e0119928. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119928.
eCollection 2015.

Olfactory Dysfunction and Neurotransmitter Disturbance in Olfactory Bulb of
Transgenic Mice Expressing Human A53T Mutant α-Synuclein.

Zhang S(1), Xiao Q(1), Le W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurology, RuiJin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, China. (2)Institute of Neurology, RuiJin Hospital,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China; State Key
Laboratory of Stem Cell Biology, Institute of Health Sciences, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Shanghai Jiao
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Parkinson disease is a multi-system neurodegenerative disease characterized by
both motor and non-motor symptoms. Hyposmia is one of the early non-motor
symptoms occurring in more than 90% of Parkinson disease cases, which can precede
motor symptoms even several years. Up to now, the relationship between hyposmia
and Parkinson disease remains elusive. Lack of proper animal models of hyposmia
restricts the investigation. In this study we assessed olfactory function in
Prp-A53T-α-synuclein transgenic (αSynA53T) mice which had been reported to show
age-dependent motor impairments and intracytoplasmic inclusions. We also examined
cholinergic and dopaminergic systems in olfactory bulb of αSynA53T mice by
immunofluorescent staining, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and western blot.
We found that compared to wild type littermates, αSynA53T mice at 6 months or
older displayed a deficit of odor discrimination and odor detection. No
significant changes were found in olfactory memory and odor habituation.
Furthermore compared to wildtype littermates, in olfactory bulb of αSynA53T mice 
at 10 months old we detected a marked decrease of cholinergic neurons in mitral
cell layer and a decrease of acetylcholinesterase activity, while dopaminergic
neurons were found increased in glomerular layer, accompanied with an increase of
tyrosine hydroxylase protein. Our studies indicate that αSynA53T mice have
olfactory dysfunction before motor deficits occur, and the cholinergic and
dopaminergic disturbance might be responsible for the Parkinson disease-related
olfactory dysfunction.

PMCID: PMC4370499
PMID: 25799501  [PubMed - in process]


293. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar 23. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2015.8. [Epub ahead of print]

An 8-Year Follow-up on the Effect of Subthalamic Nucleus Deep Brain Stimulation
on Pain in Parkinson Disease.

Jung YJ(1), Kim HJ(2), Jeon BS(2), Park H(2), Lee WW(2), Paek SH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul,
Korea. (2)Department of Neurology and Movement Disorder Center, Parkinson Study
Group, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of
Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

Importance: Pain is a common and distressing feature in Parkinson disease (PD).
The major indication of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN DBS) is
motor complications in advanced PD; however, pain reduction after STN DBS has
been noted.
Objective: To evaluate the long-term effect of STN DBS on pain in PD.
Design, Setting, and Participants: Twenty-four patients who underwent STN DBS at 
the Movement Disorder Center at Seoul National University Hospital from June 1,
2005, through March 31, 2006, were studied. The assessments of pain were
performed preoperatively and 8 years after surgery. Because 13 of the total 24
patients had additional 2-year postoperative data, the serial change between the 
preoperative and the 2- and 8-year follow-ups after surgery was also evaluated.
Main Outcomes and Measures: Motor symptoms were assessed using the Unified
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and the Hoehn and Yahr staging scale. The
severity of pain was scored according to an ordinal scale ranging from 0 (absent)
to 10 (maximal pain) in 7 parts of the body (head, neck, trunk, and the upper and
lower extremities on each side of the body). For each body part, the quality of
pain was grouped into 1 of 4 categories: dystonic, musculoskeletal,
radiculoneuritic, and central.
Results: Sixteen of the 24 patients (67%) experienced pain at baseline when not
taking medication (off-state). All off-state pain at baseline improved or
disappeared at 8 years after surgery. The number of body parts with pain was 21
at baseline and decreased to 11 at 8 years after the surgery. The mean (SD) and
median scores of the off-state pain were 6.2 (2.5) and 7.0 at baseline and
improved to 3.5 (2.2) and 2.5 at 8 years after the surgery, respectively.
However, new pain developed in 18 of 24 patients (75%) during the 8-year
follow-up period. The number of body parts with newly developed pain was 47, and 
the mean (SD) and median scores for new pain were 4.4 (3.0) and 3.0,
respectively. The types of new pain at 8 years were musculoskeletal in 11
patients, central in 4 patients, radiculoneuritic in 3 patients, and dystonic in 
1 patient.
Conclusions and Relevance: Pain associated with PD is improved by STN DBS, and
the beneficial effect persists after a long-term follow-up of 8 years. In
addition, new pain, especially the musculoskeletal type, developed in most
patients, becoming a long-term distressing problem.

PMID: 25799451  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


294. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar 23. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2015.36. [Epub ahead of print]

Deep Brain Stimulation of the Subthalamic Nucleus: Taking the Ouch Out of
Parkinson Disease.

Khemani P(1), Dewey RB Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurotherapeutics, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.

PMID: 25799251  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


295. Biomed Rep. 2015 Mar;3(2):137-140. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

Roles of Rheb(S16H) in substantia nigra pars compacta dopaminergic neurons in
vivo.

Jeon MT(1), Kim SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 700-842,
Republic of Korea ; BK21 plus KNU Creative BioResearch Group, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu 700-842, Republic of Korea. (2)School of Life Sciences,
Kyungpook National University, Daegu 700-842, Republic of Korea ; BK21 plus KNU
Creative BioResearch Group, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 700-842,
Republic of Korea ; Institute of Life Science and Biotechnology, Kyungpook
National University, Daegu 702-701, Republic of Korea ; Brain Science and
Engineering Institute, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 700-842, Republic of 
Korea.

Although there are ongoing intensive research efforts, no effective
pharmacological therapies for Parkinson's disease (PD) have been developed thus
far. However, with the development of efficient gene delivery systems, gene
therapy for PD has become a focus of research and increasing evidence suggests
that continuous production of neurotrophic factors play a significant role in the
functional restoration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA) system. Our recent 
study reported that the transduction of DA neurons with ras homolog enriched in
brain, which has an S16H mutation [Rheb(S16H)], protected the nigrostriatal DA
projection in a neurotoxin model of PD in vivo. In addition, Rheb(S16H)
expression significantly increased the levels of glial cell line-derived
neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which contributed to
the neuroprotective effects of Rheb(S16H) in DA neurons in the adult brain,
indicating that the activation of the signaling pathways involved in cell
survival by a specific gene delivery, such as Rheb(S16H) to adult neurons, may be
a useful strategy to protect neural systems in the adult brain. In the present
study, a brief overview of our recent studies is provided, which demonstrates the
neuroprotective mechanisms of Rheb(S16H) on the nigrostriatal DA projection in
the adult brain.

PMCID: PMC4360870
PMID: 25798236  [PubMed]


296. Front Aging Neurosci. 2015 Mar 6;7:20. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2015.00020. eCollection
2015.

Retinoic acid-loaded polymeric nanoparticles induce neuroprotection in a mouse
model for Parkinson's disease.

Esteves M(1), Cristóvão AC(1), Saraiva T(1), Rocha SM(1), Baltazar G(1), Ferreira
L(2), Bernardino L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Health Sciences Research Centre, University of
Beira Interior Covilhã, Portugal. (2)Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology,
University of Coimbra Coimbra, Portugal ; Biocant - Center of Innovation in
Biotechnology Cantanhede, Portugal.

Retinoic acid (RA) plays an important role in the commitment, maturation and
survival of neural cells. Recently, RA was pointed as a therapeutic option for
some neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD). The
administration of RA has been defying, and in this sense we have previously
developed novel RA-loaded polymeric nanoparticles (RA-NPs) that ensure the
efficient intracellular transport and controlled release of RA. Herein, we show
that nanoformulation as an efficient neuroprotective effect on dopaminergic (DA) 
neurons in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induced
mouse model for PD. The results showed that the RA-NPs administration induced a
significant reduction of DA neuron loss in the substantia nigra (SN) as well as
their neuronal fiber/axonal innervations in the striatum. Furthermore, we
observed an increase in the expression levels of the transcription factors Pitx3 
and Nurr1 induced by RA-NPs, showing its supportive effect on the development and
functional maintenance of DA neurons in PD. This is the first study showing that 
RA-NPs can be an innovative strategy to halt the progression of PD pathogenesis, 
suggesting that this nanoformulation could be of particular interest for the
development of new approaches for PD therapeutics.

PMCID: PMC4351630
PMID: 25798108  [PubMed]


297. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Mar 19;95:181-191. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.03.007.
[Epub ahead of print]

Activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the medial subdivision of the central nucleus
of the amygdala produces anxiolytic effects in a rat model of Parkinson's
disease.

Sun YN(1), Wang T(1), Wang Y(1), Han LN(1), Li LB(1), Zhang YM(1), Liu J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, China. (2)Department of Physiology and
Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061,
China. Electronic address: liujian@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

Although the medial subdivision of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeM) and 
serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptors are involved in the regulation of anxiety, their 
roles in Parkinson's disease (PD)-associated anxiety are still unknown. Here we
assessed the importance of CeM 5-HT1A receptors for anxiety in rats with
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the medial forebrain bundle
(MFB). The lesion induced anxiety-like behaviors, increased the firing rate and
burst-firing pattern of CeM γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons, as well as
decreased dopamine (DA) levels in the striatum, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), 
amygdala and ventral part of hippocampus (vHip). Intra-CeM injection of the
selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT produced anxiolytic effects in the
lesioned rats, and decreased the firing rate of CeM GABAergic neurons in two
groups of rats. Compared to sham-operated rats, the duration of the inhibitory
effect on the firing rate of GABAergic neurons was shortened in the lesioned
rats. The injection increased DA levels in the mPFC and amygdala in two groups of
rats and the vHip in the lesioned rats, and increased 5-HT level in the lesioned 
rats, whereas it decreased NA levels in the mPFC in two groups of rats and the
vHip in the lesioned rats. Moreover, the mean density of 5-HT1A receptor and GABA
double-labeled neurons in the CeM was reduced after the lesioning. These results 
suggest that activation of CeM 5-HT1A receptor produces anxiolytic effects in the
6-OHDA-lesioned rats, which involves decreased firing rate of the GABAergic
neurons, and changed monoamine levels in the limbic and limbic-related brain
regions.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25797491  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


298. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):547-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.024. Epub 2015 Mar 10.

Predominant pathologic laughing and crying in a SCA17 patient.

Lee HM(1), Pyo SJ(1), Kwon KY(1), Koh SB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic
of Korea. (2)Department of Neurology, Korea University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: parkinson@korea.ac.kr.

PMID: 25797299  [PubMed - in process]


299. Neurol Res. 2015 Mar 23:1743132815Y0000000020. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence of Parkinsonism and Parkinson's disease in Qena governorate/Egypt: a
cross-sectional community-based survey.

Khedr EM, Fawi G, Abbas MA, Mohammed TA, El-Fetoh NA, Attar GA, Zaki AF.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: In a previous study we found a high crude prevalence rate
(CPR) for Parkinson's disease (PD) in Assiut governorate/Egypt. We therefore
surveyed a second Nile valley governorate (Qena) to provide confirmatory evidence
for the high prevalence rate of PD in Egypt.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 10 areas in Qena governorate were selected by random
sampling to recruit 8027 inhabitants. Positive cases were identified using a
modified screening questionnaire, the unified Parkinson disease rating scale
(UPDRS), mini-mental state examination (MMSE) and the non-motor symptoms scale
(NMSS) for PD.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients were identified with Parkinsonism, giving a CPR of
548/10(5) inhabitants. Among them, 35 patients were diagnosed as PD with CPR of
436/10(5); three cases were diagnosed as drug-induced Parkinsonism with CPR
37/10(5); two cases had atherosclerotic Parkinsonism with CPR
25/10(5).Age-specific CPR of PD among population aged ≥ 50 years old was
2534/10(5).The highest age-specific CPR was recorded among subjects ≥ 75 years
old. The CPR showed a tendency to be higher in males than females, urban than
rural areas and industrial than non-industrial areas (503 vs 363/10(5), 474 vs
389/10(5) and 655 vs 312/10(5), respectively). There was a significantly higher
CPR among illiterate than literate persons (1982 vs 299/10(5) with P = 0.00001). 
About one quarter of patients had cognitive impairment. All cases had positive
symptoms in at least one or more NMS Domains.
CONCLUSION: The overall prevalence of PD disease is high in Nile valley
governorates of Upper Egypt compared to other Arabic countries.

PMID: 25796953  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


300. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Mar 18. pii: S0969-9961(15)00087-X. doi:
10.1016/j.nbd.2015.03.015. [Epub ahead of print]

Clioquinol rescues Parkinsonism and dementia phenotypes of the tau knockout
mouse.

Lei P(1), Ayton S(2), Appukuttan AT(2), Volitakis I(2), Adlard PA(2), Finkelstein
DI(2), Bush AI(3).

Author information: 
(1)Oxidation Biology Unit, Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health,
The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address:
peng.lei@florey.edu.au. (2)Oxidation Biology Unit, Florey Institute of
Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Oxidation Biology Unit, Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health,
The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address:
ashley.bush@florey.edu.au.

Iron accumulation and tau protein deposition are pathological features of
Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's diseases (PD). Soluble tau protein is lower in
affected regions of these diseases, and we previously reported that tau knockout 
mice display motor and cognitive behavioral abnormities, brain atrophy, neuronal 
death in substantia nigra, and iron accumulation in the brain that all emerged
between 6 and 12months of age. This argues for a loss of tau function in AD and
PD. We also showed that treatment with the moderate iron chelator, clioquinol
(CQ) restored iron levels and prevented neuronal atrophy and attendant behavioral
decline in 12-month old tau KO mice when commenced prior to the onset of
deterioration (6months). However, therapies for AD and PD will need to treat the 
disease once it is already manifest. So, in the current study, we tested whether 
CQ could also rescue the phenotype of mice with a developed phenotype. We found
that 5-month treatment of symptomatic (13months old) tau KO mice with CQ
increased nigral tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation (which induces activity)
and reversed the motor deficits. Treatment also reversed cognitive deficits and
raised BDNF levels in the hippocampus, which was accompanied by attenuated brain 
atrophy, and reduced iron content in the brain. These data raise the possibility 
that lowering brain iron levels in symptomatic patients could reverse neuronal
atrophy and improve brain function, possibly by elevating neurotrophins.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25796563  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


301. J Voice. 2015 Mar 17. pii: S0892-1997(14)00179-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jvoice.2014.08.012. [Epub ahead of print]

An Aerodynamic Study of Phonations in Patients With Parkinson Disease (PD).

Ikui Y(1), Nakamura H(2), Sano D(3), Hyakusoku H(3), Kishida H(2), Kudo Y(2),
Joki H(2), Koyano S(2), Yamauchi A(4), Takano S(5), Tayama N(5), Hirose H(3),
Oridate N(3), Tanaka F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Function in the Head and Neck, Yokohama City
University, Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan. Electronic address:
t116005b@yokohama-cu.ac.jp. (2)Department of Clinical Neurology and Stroke
Medicine, Yokohama City University, Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.
(3)Department of Biology and Function in the Head and Neck, Yokohama City
University, Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan. (4)Department of
Otolaryngology, The University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. (5)Department of 
Otolaryngology and Tracheo-esophagology, The National Center for Global Health
and Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The precise comparison of the voice characteristics of Parkinson
disease (PD) patients with age-matched normal subjects is still one of the
important research projects. The present study aimed at comparing the voice
characteristics in sustained phonations of PD patients with an age-matched
control group.
METHODS: The subjects were 30 Japanese PD patients (15 males and 15 females). The
control group consisted of 30 age-matched normal Japanese subjects (15 males and 
15 females). Each subject was required to phonate into a mouthpiece attached to
Vocal Function Analyzer (PS-77E; Nagashima Medical Instrumental Corporation,
Tokyo, Japan) with the airway interruption system, and expiratory lung pressure, 
mean flow rate, fundamental frequency and intensity of voice, and pitch range
were measured. Maximum phonation time was also assessed.
RESULTS: The highest pitch level was significantly lower in the PD group than
that of the control group in both sexes, whereas the lowest pitch level was
significantly higher in the PD group only in males. In both sexes, the pitch
range was significantly narrower in the PD group than in the control group. There
was no significant difference in intensity, mean flow rate, expiratory pressure, 
or maximum phonation time between the two groups, for both males and females.
CONCLUSION: Only remarkable difference in the voice characteristics between PD
patients and age-matched normal elderlies was limited to the narrowing of the
pitch range in PD patients. The restriction in pitch regulation in PD patients
was considered to be because of difficulty in reciprocal control of the laryngeal
muscles secondary to latent rigidity.

Copyright © 2015 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25795370  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


302. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Mar 20. pii: jnnp-2014-309676. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-309676. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of novel biomarkers for Parkinson's disease by metabolomic
technologies.

Hatano T(1), Saiki S(1), Okuzumi A(1), Mohney RP(2), Hattori N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Metabolon Inc., Durham, North Carolina, USA. (3)Department of Neurology,
Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan Core Research for
Evolutionary Science and Technology (CREST), Japan Science and Technology Agency,
Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) involves complex
interactions between environmental and genetic factors. Metabolomics can shed
light on alterations in metabolic pathways in many diseases, including
neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we attempted to elucidate the
candidate metabolic pathway(s) associated with PD.
METHODS: Serum samples were collected from 35 individuals with idiopathic PD
without dementia and 15 healthy age-matched control participants without PD. This
analysis used a combination of three independent platforms: ultrahigh-performance
liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC/MS/MS) optimised for basic
species, UPLC/MS/MS optimised for acidic species and gas chromatography/MS
(GC/MS).
RESULTS: The metabolomic profiles of PD were clearly different from normal
controls. PD profiles had significantly lower levels of tryptophan, caffeine and 
its metabolites, bilirubin and ergothioneine, and significantly higher levels of 
levodopa metabolites and biliverdin than those of normal controls. Alterations in
the bilirubin/biliverdin ratio and ergothioneine can indicate oxidative stress
intensity and may suggest elevated oxidative stress and/or insufficient ability
for scavenging free radicals, which could contribute to PD pathogenesis.
Decreased serum tryptophan level is associated with psychiatric problems in PD. A
decrease in serum caffeine levels is consistent with an inverse association of
caffeine consumption with development of PD based on past epidemiological
studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolomic analysis detected biomarkers associated with PD
pathogenesis and disease progression. Since critical metabolic biomarkers need to
be identified in PD, future studies should include assay validation and
replication in independent cohorts.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25795009  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


303. J Neurosurg. 2015 Mar 20:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Pallidal stimulation for Holmes tremor: clinical outcomes and single-unit
recordings in 4 cases.

Kilbane C(1), Ramirez-Zamora A, Ryapolova-Webb E, Qasim S, Glass GA, Starr PA,
Ostrem JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford; 

OBJECT Holmes tremor (HT) is characterized by irregular, low-frequency (< 4.5 Hz)
tremor occurring at rest, with posture, and with certain actions, often affecting
proximal muscles. Previous reports have tended to highlight the use of thalamic
deep brain stimulation (DBS) in cases of medication-refractory HT. In this study,
the authors report the clinical outcome and analysis of single-unit recordings in
patients with medication-refractory HT treated with globus pallidus internus
(GPi) DBS. METHODS The authors retrospectively reviewed the medical charts of 4
patients treated with pallidal DBS for medication-refractory HT at the University
of California, San Francisco, and San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center. 
Clinical outcomes were measured at baseline and after surgery using an
abbreviated motor-severity Fahn-Tolosa-Marin (FTM) tremor rating scale.
Intraoperative microelectrode recordings were performed with patients in the
awake state. The neurophysiological characteristics identified in HT were then
also compared with characteristics previously described in Parkinson's disease
(PD) studied at the authors' institution. RESULTS The mean percentage improvement
in tremor motor severity was 78.87% (range 59.9%-94.4%) as measured using the FTM
tremor rating scale, with an average length of follow-up of 33.75 months (range
18-52 months). Twenty-eight GPi neurons were recorded intraoperatively in the
resting state and 13 of these were also recorded during contralateral voluntary
arm movement. The mean firing rate at rest in HT was 56.2 ± 28.5 Hz, and 63.5 ±
19.4 Hz with action, much lower than the GPi recordings in PD. GPi unit
oscillations of 2-8 Hz were prominent in both patients with HT and those with PD,
but in HT, unlike PD, these oscillations were not suppressed by voluntary
movement. CONCLUSIONS The efficacy of GPi DBS exceeded that reported in prior
studies of ventrolateral thalamus DBS and suggest GPi may be a better target for 
treating HT. These clinical and neurophysiological findings help illuminate
evolving models of HT and highlight the importance of cerebellar-basal ganglia
interactions.

PMID: 25794341  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


304. Eur Neurol. 2015;73(3-4):212-9. doi: 10.1159/000375493. Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Parkinson's disease and restless legs syndrome.

Ylikoski A(1), Martikainen K, Partinen M.

Author information: 
(1)Vitalmed Research Center, Helsinki Sleep Clinic, Helsinki, Finland.

AIMS: Various sleep-related complications are common in Parkinson's disease (PD).
The prevalence of restless legs syndrome (RLS) and its association with other
symptoms were studied.
METHODS: Altogether, 1,447 Parkinson patients, aged 43-89, participated in a
questionnaire study.
RESULTS: The response rate was 59.0% and of these, 68% returned fully answered
questionnaires (n = 577). RLS occurred in 20.3% of the PD subjects. In patients
with RLS, the symptoms occurred in 81.9% at least once weekly. The degree of
severity was moderate in 42.7%, severe in 23.9% and very severe in 15.4%. Daytime
sleepiness, fatigue, chronic insomnia, sleep maintenance insomnia, intense
dreaming, and low quality of life were more common in patients with RLS than in
patients without RLS. The occurrence of early onset RLS (onset ≤ age of 45 years)
was 4.2%. The occurrences of late onset (>45 years) drug naïve RLS and late onset
RLS (with dopaminergic medication) were 5.4 and 10.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In patients with PD, the early onset of RLS resembles idiopathic RLS 
with typical gender distribution and familial trait. Late onset of RLS is more
common than idiopathic RLS.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

PMID: 25792198  [PubMed - in process]


305. J Nucl Med. 2015 May;56(5):714-20. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.114.152421. Epub 2015 Mar 
19.

Quantitative Analysis of
18F-(E)-N-(3-Iodoprop-2-Enyl)-2β-Carbofluoroethoxy-3β-(4'-Methyl-Phenyl)
Nortropane Binding to the Dopamine Transporter in Parkinson Disease.

Fazio P(1), Svenningsson P(2), Forsberg A(3), Jönsson EG(4), Amini N(3), Nakao
R(3), Nag S(3), Halldin C(3), Farde L(5), Varrone A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Centre for
Psychiatry Research, Stockholm, Sweden patrik.fazio@ki.se. (2)Karolinska
Institutet, Department of Neurology and Clinical Neuroscience, Centre for
Molecular Medicine, Stockholm, Sweden. (3)Karolinska Institutet, Department of
Clinical Neuroscience, Centre for Psychiatry Research, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Centre for
Psychiatry Research, Stockholm, Sweden Norment, Institute of Clinical Medicine,
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; and. (5)Karolinska Institutet, Department of
Clinical Neuroscience, Centre for Psychiatry Research, Stockholm, Sweden
AstraZeneca Translational Science Centre at Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,
Sweden.

(18)F-(E)-N-(3-iodoprop-2-enyl)-2β-carbofluoroethoxy-3β-(4'-methyl-phenyl)
nortropane ((18)F-FE-PE2I) is a recently developed radioligand for the in vivo
quantification of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in the striatum and substantia
nigra (SN). The aim of this study was to examine the suitability of (18)F-FE-PE2I
as a tool for imaging the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson disease (PD) with
PET.METHODS: Ten PD patients (9 men and 1 woman; mean age ± SD, 60 ± 9 y; Hoehn
and Yahr, 1-2; Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale motor, 18.9 ± 6.7) and 10
controls (9 men and 1 woman; mean age ± SD, 60 ± 7 y) were included. PET
measurements with (18)F-FE-PE2I were conducted for 93 min using the
High-Resolution Research Tomograph. Venous blood was drawn to compare protein
binding, parent fraction, and radiometabolite composition in PD patients and
controls. Regions of interest for the caudate, putamen, ventral striatum, SN, and
cerebellum were drawn on coregistered MR images. The outcome measure was the
binding potential (BPND) estimated with the simplified reference tissue model and
the Logan graphical analysis, using the cerebellum as a reference region. Time
stability of BPND was examined to define the shortest acquisition protocol for
quantitative studies. The wavelet-aided parametric imaging method was used to
obtain high-resolution BPND images to compare DAT availability in the striatum
and SN in PD patients and control subjects. Group differences were assessed with 
the unpaired t test (P < 0.05).
RESULTS: Parent, radiometabolite fractions, plasma concentration, and cerebellar 
uptake of (18)F-FE-PE2I did not differ significantly between PD patients and
controls. Stable estimates of BPND (<8% of the 93-min value) were obtained with
the simplified reference tissue model using approximately 66 min of data. BPND
values in PD patients were significantly lower than those in controls (P < 0.05) 
in the caudate (2.54 ± 0.79 vs. 3.68 ± 0.56), putamen (1.39 ± 1.04 vs. 4.41 ±
0.54), ventral striatum (2.26 ± 0.93 vs. 3.30 ± 0.46), and SN (0.46 ± 0.20 vs.
0.68 ± 0.15).
CONCLUSION: (18)F-FE-PE2I is clearly a suitable radioligand for DAT
quantification and imaging of the nigrostriatal pathway in PD. Similar metabolism
in controls and PD patients, suitability of the cerebellum as a reference region,
and accuracy of quantification using approximately 66 min of PET data are
advantages for noninvasive and simplified imaging protocols for PD studies.
Finally, DAT loss in PD can be measured in both the striatum and the SN,
supporting the utility of (18)F-FE-PE2I as an imaging tool of the nigrostriatal
pathway.

© 2015 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Inc.

PMID: 25791993  [PubMed - in process]


306. Neurogenetics. 2015 Mar 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Mitochondrial serine protease HTRA2 gene mutation in Asians with coexistent
essential tremor and Parkinson disease.

Chao YX(1), Ng EY, Foo JN, Liu J, Zhao Y, Tan EK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute, Level 6, Academia,
20 College Road, Singapore, 169856, Singapore.

PMID: 25791756  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


307. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):525-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.018. Epub 2015 Feb 28.

Telemedicine in Parkinson's disease: A patient perspective at a tertiary care
centre.

Qiang JK(1), Marras C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 1 King's College Circle, Toronto, 
ON M5S 1A8, Canada. Electronic address: j.qiang@mail.utoronto.ca. (2)Morton and
Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Centre and the Edmond J. Safra Program in
Parkinson's Research, Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, 399 Bathurst 
St., Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada. Electronic address:
connie.marras@uhnresearch.ca.

INTRODUCTION: To overcome travel distance and lack of local expertise,
telemedicine programs have been implemented and are still pilot programs in many 
jurisdictions. Patient perspectives remain poorly understood. In the largest
study to date, we examined user satisfaction and predictors of patient choice to 
use telemedicine among Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients in the context of a
well-developed telemedicine system. These data can help to optimize healthcare
delivery by telemedicine.
METHODS: A patient satisfaction questionnaire was administered to current or
previous users via telephone. Patients' cost savings were determined. The
proportion of non-users interested in using telemedicine was quantified.
Demographic and clinical characteristics of those who expressed interest in the
program vs. those who did not were compared.
RESULTS: A total of 34 users and 103 non-users were recruited. Users reported an 
average cost reduction of $200 and 209 minutes of reduction in commute time
(p < 0.01). While a majority (29/34 users) reported interest in continuing with
telemedicine, inexperience of some telehealth nurses was a major source of
patient dissatisfaction. Patients preferred a combination of telehealth and
in-person visits. A majority of non-users (55/103, 53%) declared interest in
telemedicine, but it had not been offered to them. A lower Hoehn and Yahr stage
and a longer commute time were associated with patient interest in telemedicine.
CONCLUSIONS: Training of nurses is an important determinant of patient
satisfaction. Clinicians should consider offering telehealth to all patients for 
whom it is medically appropriate, especially those who experience long travel
times.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25791380  [PubMed - in process]


308. Ther Umsch. 2015 Apr;72(4):279-85. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000676.

Neue Therapieansätze.

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Kurz A(1), Grimmer T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Klinikum rechts der 
Isar; Technische Universität München.

The most prevalent causes of dementia are progressive and irreversible
neurodegenerative diseases of the brain. Alzheimer's disease ranks first and is
follwed by Parkinson and Lewy body disease as well as the Frontotemporal lobar
degenerations. These neurodegenerative processes are characterised by the
production, aggregation and deposition of pathological proteins. These are β
amyloid and tau in Alzheimer's disease; α synuclein in der Parkinson's- and Lewy 
body disease, and tau, TDP-43 as well as FUS in the Frontotemporal lobar
degenerations. Aggregation into oligomers and fibrils and subsequent
sedimentation of these proteins lead to nerve cell dysfunction, synaptic failure 
and ultimately to the demise of neurons. The deficits and imbalance of
neurotransmitter systems which represent an important target of the current
pharmacological treatment of dementia are consequences of nerve cell loss. Many
of the novel treatment approaches that are being tested in clinical trials are
aimed at preventing, slowing or ameliorating the production, aggregation and
deposition of pathological proteins. Key strategies are inhibition of secretases 
which generate β amyloid, active and passive immunisation against β amyloid,
restriction β amyloid and tau aggregation as well as stimulation of β amyloid
clearance. In addition clinical trials are ongoing on symptomatic treatments
including the simultaneous stimulation of multiple neurotransmitter systems,
compensation of brain insulin resistance, and neuroprotection through certain
nutrients. In addition to novel drug treatments non-pharmacological interventions
are also being developed.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
PMID: 25791052  [PubMed - in process]


309. Front Neuroanat. 2015 Mar 4;9:16. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00016. eCollection
2015.

Life-time expression of the proteins peroxiredoxin, beta-synuclein, PARK7/DJ-1,
and stathmin in the primary visual and primary somatosensory cortices in rats.

Böhm MR(1), Melkonyan H(2), Thanos S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Ophthalmology and DFG-Center of Excellence Cells in 
Motion (CiM), area C.4, School of Medicine, Westfalian-Wilhelms-University of
Münster Münster, Germany ; Department of Ophthalmology, St. Franziskus Hospital
Münster Münster, Germany. (2)Institute of Experimental Ophthalmology and
DFG-Center of Excellence Cells in Motion (CiM), area C.4, School of Medicine,
Westfalian-Wilhelms-University of Münster Münster, Germany.

Four distinct proteins are regulated in the aging neuroretina and may be
regulated in the cerebral cortex, too: peroxiredoxin, beta-synuclein,
PARK[Parkinson disease(autosomal recessive, early onset)]7/DJ-1, and Stathmin.
Thus, we performed a comparative analysis of these proteins in the the primary
somatosensory cortex (S1) and primary visual cortex (V1) in rats, in order to
detect putative common development-, maturation- and age-related changes. The
expressions of peroxiredoxin, beta-synuclein, PARK[Parkinson disease (autosomal
recessive, early onset)]7/DJ-1, and Stathmin were compared in the newborn,
juvenile, adult, and aged S1 and V1. Western blot (WB), quantitative
reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and
immunohistochemistry (IHC) analyses were employed to determine whether the
changes identified by proteomics were verifiable at the cellular and molecular
levels. All of the proteins were detected in both of the investigated cortical
areas. Changes in the expressions of the four proteins were found throughout the 
life-time of the rats. Peroxiredoxin expression remained unchanged over
life-time. Beta-Synuclein expression was massively increased up to the adult
stage of life in both the S1 and V1. PARK[Parkinson disease (autosomal recessive,
early onset)]7/DJ-1 exhibited a massive up-regulation in both the S1 and V1 at
all ages. Stathmin expression was massively down regulated after the neonatal
period in both the S1 and V1. The detected protein alterations were analogous to 
their retinal profiles. This study is the first to provide evidence that
peroxiredoxin, beta-synuclein, PARK[Parkinson disease (autosomal recessive, early
onset)]7/DJ-1, and Stathmin are associated with postnatal maturation and aging in
both the S1 and V1 of rats. These changes may indicate their involvement in key
functional pathways and may account for the onset or progression of age-related
pathologies.

PMCID: PMC4349188
PMID: 25788877  [PubMed]


310. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 18. doi: 10.1002/mds.26208. [Epub ahead of print]

Apathy in Parkinson's disease: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

den Brok MG(1), Dalen JW, van Gool WA, Moll van Charante EP, de Bie RM, Richard
E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Apathy is a frequently reported neuropsychiatric symptom in Parkinson's disease
(PD), but its prevalence and clinical correlates are debated. We aimed to address
these issues by conducting a systematic review and meta-analysis. Embase,
Medline/PubMed, and PsychINFO databases were searched for relevant studies. Data 
were extracted by two independent observers, using predefined extraction forms
tailored specifically to the research question. From 1,702 titles and abstracts, 
23 studies were selected. Meta-analysis showed a prevalence of apathy in PD of
39.8% (n = 5,388, 905% CI 34.6-45.0%). Apathy was associated with higher age (3.3
years, 95% CI = 1.7-4.9), lower mean Mini-Mental State Evaluation (MMSE) score
(-1.4 points, 95% CI = -2.1 to -0.8), an increased risk of co-morbid depression
(relative risk [RR] = 2.3, 95% CI = 1.9-2.8), higher Unified Parkinson's Disease 
Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score (6.5 points, 95% CI = 2.6-10.3), and more severe
disability (Hedges-G = 0.5, 95% CI = 0.3-0.6). Half of the patients with apathy
had concomitant depression (57.2%, 95% CI = 49.4-64.9%), and this estimate was
similar after exclusion of patients with cognitive impairment (52.5%, 95%
CI = 42.2%-62.8%). In conclusion, we found that apathy affects almost 40% of
patients with PD. Several factors influence reported prevalence rates,
contributing to the considerable heterogeneity in study results. Half of patients
with apathy do not suffer from concomitant depression or cognitive impairment,
confirming its status as a separate clinical syndrome in PD. The pervasiveness of
apathy in PD warrants research into its treatment, although different underlying 
pathophysiological mechanisms may require different treatment strategies.
Treatment of apathy could improve patient quality of life, reduce caregiver
burden, alleviate disability by increasing motivation for self-care, and reduce
cognitive impairment by improving executive functioning. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25787145  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


311. Alcohol Alcohol. 2015 Mar 18. pii: agv020. [Epub ahead of print]

Professional's Attitudes Do Not Influence Screening and Brief Interventions Rates
for Hazardous and Harmful Drinkers: Results from ODHIN Study.

Bendtsen P(1), Anderson P(2), Wojnar M(3), Newbury-Birch D(4), Müssener U(5),
Colom J(6), Karlsson N(5), Brzózka K(7), Spak F(8), Deluca P(9), Drummond C(9),
Kaner E(4), Kłoda K(10), Mierzecki A(10), Okulicz-Kozaryn K(7), Parkinson K(4),
Reynolds J(11), Ronda G(12), Segura L(6), Palacio J(6), Baena B(6), Slodownik
L(7), van Steenkiste B(12), Wolstenholme A(9), Wallace P(13), Keurhorst MN(14),
Laurant MG(15), Gual A(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Specialist and Department of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Linköping University, Motala, Sweden preben.bendtsen@liu.se.
(2)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK
Department of Family Medicine, Maastricht University, School CAPHRI, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands. (3)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw,
Warsaw, Poland Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI,
USA. (4)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon
Tyne, UK. (5)Department of Medicine and Health Sciences, Linköping University,
Linköping, Sweden. (6)Program on Substance Abuse, Public Health Agency,
Government of Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain. (7)State Agency for Prevention of
Alcohol-Related Problems, Warsaw, Poland. (8)Department of Social Medicine,
University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. (9)National Addiction Centre,
Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK. (10)Independent
Laboratory of Family Physician Education, Pomeranian Medical University,
Szczecin, Poland. (11)Addictions Unit, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, IDIBAPS,
Barcelona, Spain. (12)Department of Family Medicine, Maastricht University,
School CAPHRI, Maastricht, The Netherlands. (13)Department of Primary Care and
Population Health, University College London, London, UK. (14)Radboud University 
Medical Center, Scientific Institute for Quality of Healthcare (IQ Healthcare),
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (15)Radboud University Medical Center, Scientific
Institute for Quality of Healthcare (IQ Healthcare), Nijmegen, The Netherlands
Faculty of Health and Social Studies, HAN University of Applied Sciences,
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

AIMS: To determine the relation between existing levels of alcohol screening and 
brief intervention rates in five European jurisdictions and role security and
therapeutic commitment by the participating primary healthcare professionals.
METHODS: Health care professionals consisting of, 409 GPs, 282 nurses and 55
other staff including psychologists, social workers and nurse aids from 120
primary health care centres participated in a cross-sectional 4-week survey. The 
participants registered all screening and brief intervention activities as part
of their normal routine. The participants also completed the Shortened Alcohol
and Alcohol Problems Perception Questionnaire (SAAPPQ), which measure role
security and therapeutic commitment.
RESULTS: The only significant but small relationship was found between role
security and screening rate in a multilevel logistic regression analysis adjusted
for occupation of the provider, number of eligible patients and the random
effects of jurisdictions and primary health care units (PHCU). No significant
relationship was found between role security and brief intervention rate nor
between therapeutic commitment and screening rate/brief intervention rate. The
proportion of patients screened varied across jurisdictions between 2 and 10%.
CONCLUSION: The findings show that the studied factors (role security and
therapeutic commitment) are not of great importance for alcohol screening and BI 
rates. Given the fact that screening and brief intervention implementation rate
has not changed much in the last decade in spite of increased policy emphasis,
training initiatives and more research being published, this raises a question
about what else is needed to enhance implementation.

© The Author 2015. Medical Council on Alcohol and Oxford University Press. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25787012  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


312. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 18. doi: 10.1002/mds.26206. [Epub ahead of print]

Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation of the primary motor cortex in the
treatment of motor signs in Parkinson's disease: A quantitative review of the
literature.

Zanjani A(1), Zakzanis KK, Daskalakis ZJ, Chen R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto Scarborough, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive disorder characterized by the emergence
of motor deficits. In light of the voluminous and conflicting findings in the
literature, the aim of the present quantitative review was to examine the effects
of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) targeting the primary
motor cortex (M1) in the treatment of motor signs in PD. Studies meeting
inclusion criteria were analyzed using meta-analytic techniques and the Unified
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) sections II and III were used as outcome
measures. In order to determine the treatment effects of rTMS, the UPDRS II and
III scores obtained at baseline, same day, to 1 day post rTMS treatment
(short-term follow-up) and 1-month post stimulation (long-term follow-up) were
compared between the active and sham rTMS groups. Additionally, the placebo
effect was evaluated as the changes in UPDRS III scores in the sham rTMS groups. 
A placebo effect was not demonstrated, because sham rTMS did not improve motor
signs as measured by UPDRS III. Compared with sham rTMS, active rTMS targeting
the M1 significantly improved UPDRS III scores at the short-term follow-up
(Cohen's d of 0.27, UPDRS III score improvement of 3.8 points). When the
long-term follow-up UPDRS III scores were compared with baseline scores, the
standardized effect size between active and sham rTMS did not reach significance.
However, this translated into a significant nonstandardized 6.3-point improvement
on the UPDRS III. No significant improvement in the UPDRS II was found. rTMS over
the M1 may improve motor signs. Further studies are needed to provide a definite 
conclusion. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25786995  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


313. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2015 Mar 19. [Epub ahead of print]

Is meniscal allograft transplantation chondroprotective? A systematic review of
radiological outcomes.

Smith NA(1), Parkinson B, Hutchinson CE, Costa ML, Spalding T.

Author information: 
(1)University of Warwick, Clinical Sciences Research Laboratories, Clifford
Bridge Road, Coventry, West Midlands, CV2 2DX, UK, nickasmith@doctors.net.uk.

PURPOSE: The primary aim of this systematic review was to examine the hypothesis 
that meniscal allograft transplantation is chondroprotective by identifying and
appraising studies that have assessed the progression of osteoarthritis following
meniscal allograft transplantation. The secondary aim was to identify and
appraise radiological measures of meniscal allograft integrity following surgery.
METHODS: Clinical studies on human participants undergoing meniscal allograft
transplantation with a minimum follow-up of 6 months were included. The primary
outcome measure was any radiological osteoarthritis progression measure.
Secondary outcomes included magnetic resonance measures of meniscal integrity
including meniscal size, shape, healing, extrusion and signal intensity.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight studies with 1056 allografts were included. The weighted
mean joint space loss was 0.032 mm at 4.5 years across 11 studies. Other
radiological classification systems were reported in small numbers and with
variable progression rates. Meniscal extrusion was present in nearly all cases,
but was not associated with clinical or other radiological outcomes. Meniscal
healing rates were high, although the size, shape and signal intensity were
commonly altered from that of the native meniscus. The quality of the included
studies was low, with a high risk of bias.
CONCLUSION: There is some evidence to support the hypothesis that meniscal
allograft transplantation reduces the progression of osteoarthritis, although it 
is unlikely to be as effective as the native meniscus. If this is proven, there
may be a role for prophylactic meniscal allograft transplantation in selected
patients. Well-designed randomised controlled trials are needed to further test
this hypothesis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Systematic review of studies, Level IV.

PMID: 25786823  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


314. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 18. doi: 10.1002/mds.26205. [Epub ahead of print]

Low-Variance RNAs Identify Parkinson's Disease Molecular Signature in Blood.

Chikina MD(1), Gerald CP, Li X, Ge Y, Pincas H, Nair VD, Wong AK, Krishnan A,
Troyanskaya OG, Raymond D, Saunders-Pullman R, Bressman SB, Yue Z, Sealfon SC.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology and Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai, New York, New York, USA.

The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is usually not established until
advanced neurodegeneration leads to clinically detectable symptoms. Previous
blood PD transcriptome studies show low concordance, possibly resulting from the 
use of microarray technology, which has high measurement variation. The
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) G2019S mutation predisposes to PD. Using
preclinical and clinical studies, we sought to develop a novel statistically
motivated transcriptomic-based approach to identify a molecular signature in the 
blood of Ashkenazi Jewish PD patients, including LRRK2 mutation carriers. Using a
digital gene expression platform to quantify 175 messenger RNA (mRNA) markers
with low coefficients of variation (CV), we first compared whole-blood transcript
levels in mouse models (1) overexpressing wild-type (WT) LRRK2, (2)
overexpressing G2019S LRRK2, (3) lacking LRRK2 (knockout), and (4) and in WT
controls. We then studied an Ashkenazi Jewish cohort of 34 symptomatic PD
patients (both WT LRRK2 and G2019S LRRK2) and 32 asymptomatic controls. The
expression profiles distinguished the four mouse groups with different genetic
background. In patients, we detected significant differences in blood transcript 
levels both between individuals differing in LRRK2 genotype and between PD
patients and controls. Discriminatory PD markers included genes associated with
innate and adaptive immunity and inflammatory disease. Notably, gene expression
patterns in levodopa-treated PD patients were significantly closer to those of
healthy controls in a dose-dependent manner. We identify whole-blood mRNA
signatures correlating with LRRK2 genotype and with PD disease state. This
approach may provide insight into pathogenesis and a route to early disease
detection. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25786808  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


315. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 17. doi: 10.1002/mds.26188. [Epub ahead of print]

The somatotopy of tic inhibition: Where and how much?

Ganos C(1), Bongert J, Asmuss L, Martino D, Haggard P, Münchau A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, UK; Department
of Neurology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg,
Germany.

Tics are the hallmark feature of Tourette syndrome. The basic phenomenological
and neurophysiological characteristics of tics have been widely investigated.
Interestingly, the spatial distribution of tics across different body parts has
received little attention. No previous study has investigated whether the
capacity for voluntary tic inhibition also varies across body parts. We analyzed 
video sequences of 26 adolescents with Tourette syndrome in a "tic freely"
condition, and in a "voluntary tic inhibition" condition, to obtain absolute tic 
counts for different body parts. Two measures of the spatial distribution of tics
were then analyzed. Linear regression analyses were employed to investigate the
relation between the contribution of each body part to overall tic behavior and
the ability to inhibit tics in that body part, averaged over our patient group.
Tic distribution across patients showed a characteristic somatotopic pattern,
with the face most strongly represented. A significant negative relation was
found between the ability to inhibit tics and pooled tic frequency across body
parts. The body parts that exhibited the fewest tics were the ones for which tic 
inhibition was most effective. Our data are consistent with the idea that tic
recruitment order reflects a "tic generator" spreading across a somatotopic map
in the brain. Voluntary tic inhibition did not simply cause a proportional
reduction of tics in each body part. Rather, the least affected body parts showed
most effective voluntary tic inhibition. The results are discussed in terms of
signal and noise within cortical-subcortical motor loops. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25786675  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


316. Zh Evol Biokhim Fiziol. 2014 Sep-Oct;50(5):336-42.

[Catecholaminergic neurons of mammalian brain and neuromelanin].

[Article in Russian]

Sukhorukova EG, Alekseeva OS, Korzhevskii DE.

Brain catecholaminergic neurons belong to the most extensively studied
populations of nerve cells. Presence of a pigment neuromelanin in their cytoplasm
is a specific morphological feature of these neurons in many mammalian species.
Elucidation of the role of neuromelanin is of importance for comparative
neurobiology, as it is absent in neurons of another neurotransmitter systems and,
moreover, even in catecholaminergic neurons of some laboratory animals, which
limits the possibility of experimental verification of existing hypotheses of its
functions under physiological and pathological conditions. For recent years,
neuromelanin is an object of particular interest in the scientific community
involved in research of neurotoxicity and modeling the Parkinson's disease. The
present review summarizes and analyzes new data on the structure and functions of
neuromelanin and its probable role in pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease is
discussed.

PMID: 25786315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Front Oncol. 2015 Mar 3;5:55. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2015.00055. eCollection 2015.

Molecular heterogeneity in glioblastoma: potential clinical implications.

Parker NR(1), Khong P(1), Parkinson JF(2), Howell VM(1), Wheeler HR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bill Walsh Translational Cancer Research Laboratory, Kolling Institute of
Medical Research, Royal North Shore Hospital, University of Sydney , St Leonards,
NSW , Australia. (2)Bill Walsh Translational Cancer Research Laboratory, Kolling 
Institute of Medical Research, Royal North Shore Hospital, University of Sydney ,
St Leonards, NSW , Australia ; Department of Neurosurgery, Royal North Shore
Hospital , St Leonards, NSW , Australia. (3)Bill Walsh Translational Cancer
Research Laboratory, Kolling Institute of Medical Research, Royal North Shore
Hospital, University of Sydney , St Leonards, NSW , Australia ; Department of
Medical Oncology, Royal North Shore Hospital , St Leonards, NSW , Australia.

Glioblastomas, (grade 4 astrocytomas), are aggressive primary brain tumors
characterized by histopathological heterogeneity. High-resolution sequencing
technologies have shown that these tumors also feature significant inter-tumoral 
molecular heterogeneity. Molecular subtyping of these tumors has revealed several
predictive and prognostic biomarkers. However, intra-tumoral heterogeneity may
undermine the use of single biopsy analysis for determining tumor genotype and
has implications for potential targeted therapies. The clinical relevance and
theories of tumoral molecular heterogeneity in glioblastoma are discussed.

PMCID: PMC4347445
PMID: 25785247  [PubMed]


318. Parkinsons Dis. 2015;2015:951645. doi: 10.1155/2015/951645. Epub 2015 Feb 15.

Early Freezing of Gait: Atypical versus Typical Parkinson Disorders.

Lieberman A(1), Deep A(1), Dhall R(1), Tran A(1), Liu MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Muhammad Ali Parkinson Center (MAPC), Barrow Neurological Institute, St.
Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

In 18 months, 850 patients were referred to Muhammad Ali Parkinson Center (MAPC).
Among them, 810 patients had typical Parkinson disease (PD) and 212 had PD for ≤5
years. Among the 212 patients with early PD, 27 (12.7%) had freezing of gait
(FOG). Forty of the 850 had atypical parkinsonism. Among these 40 patients, all
of whom had symptoms for ≤5 years, 12 (30.0%) had FOG. FOG improved with levodopa
in 21/27 patients with typical PD but did not improve in the 12 patients with
atypical parkinsonism. FOG was associated with falls in both groups of patients. 
We believe that FOG unresponsive to levodopa in typical PD resembles FOG in
atypical parkinsonism. We thus compared the 6 typical PD patients with FOG
unresponsive to levodopa plus the 12 patients with atypical parkinsonism with the
21 patients with typical PD responsive to levodopa. We compared them by tests of 
locomotion and postural stability. Among the patients with FOG unresponsive to
levodopa, postural stability was more impaired than locomotion. This finding
leads us to believe that, in these patients, postural stability, not locomotion, 
is the principal problem underlying FOG.

PMCID: PMC4345077
PMID: 25785228  [PubMed]


319. Int J Clin Exp Med. 2015 Jan 15;8(1):431-9. eCollection 2015.

Neuroprotection of MAO-B inhibitor and dopamine agonist in Parkinson disease.

Kong P(1), Zhang B(2), Lei P(1), Kong X(1), Zhang S(1), Li D(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Tianjin Medical University General Hospital Tianjin,
China. (2)Department of Neurology, Tianjin Medical University General Hospital
Tianjin, China.

Parkinson disease is characterized by the death of dopaminergic neurons in the
substantia nigra pars compacta. We explored the neuroprotective effect of
Selegiline and Piribedil, the Monoamine Oxidase Type B (MAO-B) and dopamine
agonist to Parkinson disease (PD). After embryonic Wistar rat were induced by
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from PD patients, Selegiline and Piribedil were
administered to Wistar rat. Immunohistochemical staining, RT-PCR and western blot
were adopted to analyze the changes of morphology, lactate dehydrogenase
activity, tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons rate, and tyrosine hydroxylase
(TH) expression in Wistar rat. The two drugs do not affect the normal growth of
dopamine neurons. Selegiline and Piribedil both decreased the injury caused by
CSF of PD patients in Wistar rat. We observed decreased lactate dehydrogenase
(LDH) activity, increased TH (+)/total cells ratio and increased the TH
expression in treated Wistar rat with dose-dependent effects. The morphological
changes of cells are consistent with above observation. Selegiline and Piribedil 
have neuroprotective effects to induced PD Wistar rat with dose-dependent effect.
Selegiline demonstrated stronger neuroprotective effect than Piribedil, and the
two drugs have potential treatment effect in clinical for PD patients.

PMCID: PMC4358469
PMID: 25785014  [PubMed]


320. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Mar 2;9:25. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00025. eCollection 
2015.

Modulation of the glutamatergic transmission by Dopamine: a focus on Parkinson,
Huntington and Addiction diseases.

Gardoni F(1), Bellone C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Milano 
Milano, Italy. (2)Department of Fundamental Neuroscience, University of Lausanne 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

Dopamine (DA) plays a major role in motor and cognitive functions as well as in
reward processing by regulating glutamatergic inputs. In particular in the
striatum the release of DA rapidly influences synaptic transmission modulating
both AMPA and NMDA receptors. Several neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric
disorders, including Parkinson, Huntington and addiction-related diseases,
manifest a dysregulation of glutamate and DA signaling. Here, we will focus our
attention on the mechanisms underlying the modulation of the glutamatergic
transmission by DA in striatal circuits.

PMCID: PMC4345909
PMID: 25784855  [PubMed]


321. Card Electrophysiol Clin. 2015 Mar;7(1):79-88. doi: 10.1016/j.ccep.2014.11.005.
Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Noninvasive diagnostic mapping of supraventricular arrhythmias
(Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome and atrial arrhythmias).

Cakulev I(1), Sahadevan J(2), Waldo AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Harrington Heart 
& Vascular Institute, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, 11100 Euclid
Avenue, MS LKS 5038, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. Electronic address:
Ivan.Cakulev@case.edu. (2)Department of Cardiology, Louis Stokes Cleveland
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 10701 East Boulevard, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. 
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Harrington Heart 
& Vascular Institute, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, 11100 Euclid
Avenue, MS LKS 5038, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.

The 12-lead electrocardiogram has limited value in precisely identifying the
origin of focal or critical component of reentrant arrhythmias during
supraventricular arrhythmias, as well as precisely locating accessory
atrioventricular conduction pathways. Because of these limitations, efforts have 
been made to reconstruct epicardial activation sequences from body surface
measurements obtained noninvasively. The last decade has registered significant
progress in obtaining clinically useful data from the attempts to noninvasively
map the epicardial electrical activity. This article summarizes the recent
advances made in this area, specifically addressing the clinical outcomes of such
efforts relating to atrial arrhythmias and Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25784024  [PubMed - in process]


322. Nurse Educ. 2015 Mar 16. [Epub ahead of print]

Faculty Experiences Developing and Implementing Policies for Exit Exam Testing.

Stonecypher K(1), Young A, Langford R, Symes L, Willson P.

Author information: 
(1)Author Affiliations: Associate Director of Education (Dr Stonecypher),
Parkinson Disease Research Education and Clinical Center; and Professors (Drs
Young and Langford) and Associate Professor (Dr Symes), Texas Woman's University,
Houston; and Clinical Professor (Willson), Texas State University, St David's
School of Nursing, Round Rock.

Nursing schools use standardized exit examinations to determine student readiness
for the NCLEX-RN. Yet little is known about how nursing programs develop policies
for using the examinations, set benchmarks scores, and implement remediation
strategies with their students. In a phenomenological study, faculty identified a
testing policy process that fell into the major themes of triggers for change,
policy modification, and reactions to change.

PMID: 25783812  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


323. Clin Nucl Med. 2015 May;40(5):390-3. doi: 10.1097/RLU.0000000000000766.

The Impact of DaTscan in the Diagnosis of Parkinson Disease.

Gayed I(1), Joseph U, Fanous M, Wan D, Schiess M, Ondo W, Won KS.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Nuclear Medicine Section, Department of Diagnostic and
Interventional Imaging, and †Department of Neurology, Medical School at Houston
Health Science Center, Houston, TX; and ‡Department of Nuclear Medicine, Keimyung
University Dongsan Medical Center, Daegu, South Korea.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of DaTscan in a
heterogeneous group of patients with movement disorders as well as the degree of 
confidence in scan findings between different readers.
PROCEDURES: A retrospective evaluation of consecutive patients who underwent
DaTscan during 1 year was performed. The patients' demographics, symptoms,
duration, clinical diagnosis, and medications were collected. The scan findings
were categorized by 2 blinded observers on a semiquantitative scale as follows:
0, normal; 1, mild; 2, moderate; 3, marked; and 4, absent uptake for each of the 
caudate heads and putamina separately. A correlation of the scan findings with
the clinical symptoms and diagnosis as well as interobserver agreement was
performed. Disagreement was considered when a difference greater than 2 in more
than 1 area of the basal ganglia was recorded. Descriptive statistics and κ test 
for interobserver agreement were used for data analysis.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven patients were included (mean age, 63.4 years; 29 men, 28
women). Clinical diagnosis of Parkinson disease (PD) was certain in 26 and
uncertain in 31 patients. DaTscan was markedly abnormal in 24 (92%) of 26
patients with certain clinical diagnosis of PD and normal in the remaining 2
(8%). In 31 patients with uncertain diagnosis, 15 (48%) had markedly abnormal
scans, 5 (16%) had mild abnormalities, and 11 (36%) had normal scans. Each of the
sensitivity and positive predictive value of DaTscan in patients who had certain 
clinical diagnosis of PD (26 patients) is 92%. Interobserver agreement occurred
in 52 (91%) of 57 scans and disagreement in 5 (9%) of 57 (κ = 0.82). There was
also a good correlation with laterality of symptoms in 32 (82%) of 39 positive
studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Markedly abnormal DaTscan is confirmed as the diagnostic pattern for
PD. This pattern helps confirm the diagnosis in patients with unclear clinical
diagnosis. Good interobserver agreement is easily obtained in reading DaTscans.

PMID: 25783511  [PubMed - in process]


324. Nurs Stand. 2015 Mar 18;29(29):65. doi: 10.7748/ns.29.29.65.s51.

A massive opportunity.

Parkinson D(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Liverpool.

Massive Open Online Courses, or MOOCs, are a relatively new development in
education and even more recent in nursing. The term refers to free online courses
available to anyone with an interest in the subject, not limited by geography or 
the participant's educational qualifications.

PMID: 25783287  [PubMed - in process]


325. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Mar 17. doi: 10.1002/gps.4284. [Epub ahead of
print]

The effects of cognitive reserve and lifestyle on cognition and dementia in
Parkinson's disease-a longitudinal cohort study.

Hindle JV(1), Hurt CS, Burn DJ, Brown RG, Samuel M, Wilson KC, Clare L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Care of the Elderly, Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board,
Llandudno, UK; North Wales Organisation for Randomised Trials in Health (NWORTH),
Bangor University, Bangor, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Cognitive reserve theory seeks to explain the observed mismatch
between the degree of brain pathology and clinical manifestations. Early-life
education, midlife social and occupational activities and later-life cognitive
and social interactions are associated with a more favourable cognitive
trajectory in older people. Previous studies of Parkinson's disease (PD) have
suggested a possible role for the effects of cognitive reserve, but further
research into different proxies for cognitive reserve and longitudinal studies is
required. This study examined the effects of cognitive lifestyle on
cross-sectional and longitudinal measures of cognition and dementia severity in
people with PD.
METHODS: Baseline assessments of cognition, and of clinical, social and
demographic information, were completed by 525 participants with PD. Cognitive
assessments were completed by 323 participants at 4-year follow-up. Cognition was
assessed using the measures of global cognition dementia severity.
Cross-sectional and longitudinal serial analyses of covariance for cognition and 
binomial regression for dementia were performed.
RESULTS: Higher educational level, socio-economic status and recent social
engagement were associated with better cross-sectional global cognition. In those
with normal cognition at baseline, higher educational level was associated with
better global cognition after 4 years. Increasing age and low levels of a measure
of recent social engagement were associated with an increased risk of dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher cognitive reserve has a beneficial effect on performance on
cognitive tests and a limited effect on cognitive decline and dementia risk in
PD. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25781584  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


326. Orv Hetil. 2015 Mar 22;156(12):472-8. doi: 10.1556/OH.2015.30109.

[Critical issues of the biopsychosocial treatment of Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Kincses P(1), Kovács N(2), Karádi K(1), Kállai J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar Magatartástudományi
Intézet Pécs. (2)Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Klinikai Központ Neurológiai Klinika Pécs
Rét u. 2. 7623.

This paper is a summary report on the basic questions of the biopsychosocial
approach to Parkinson's disease. It deals with cognitive, affective and
psychological health issues which significantly influence the outcome of the
physical rehabilitation. In spite of the unchanged cognitive status, the
psychological burden of the changes in the quality of life, the obstruction, the 
change in the affective tone, and the shrinking ability to fulfil social roles
decrease the patient's quality of life. An interdisciplinary approach is best
suited for mitigating these effects. Not only the patient but also his/her family
and environment is seriously affected by the disease and its consequences.
Treatment and rehabilitation options for increasing or maintaining the quality of
life of the affected patients are diverse, and significantly depend on the
features of the health care system. The authors believe that the following review
emphasizing health psychological principles may contribute to the work of
professionals working in clinical and rehabilitational fields and through them
may increase the quality of life of patients and their family.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
PMID: 25778854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 17. doi: 10.1002/mds.26202. [Epub ahead of print]

Manganese transport disorder: Novel SLC30A10 mutations and early phenotypes.

Quadri M(1), Kamate M, Sharma S, Olgiati S, Graafland J, Breedveld GJ, Kori I,
Hattiholi V, Jain P, Aneja S, Kumar A, Gulati P, Goel M, Talukdar B, Bonifati V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: SLC30A10 mutations cause an autosomal recessive disorder,
characterized by hypermanganesaemia, polycythemia, early-onset dystonia,
paraparesis, or late-onset parkinsonism, and chronic liver disease. This is the
first identified inborn error of Mn metabolism in humans, reported in 10 families
thus far.
METHODS: Methods for this study consisted of clinical examination, neuroimaging
studies (MRI), serum dosages, and SLC30A10 genetic analysis.
RESULTS: We describe early disease manifestations (including videos) in 5
previously unreported Indian children, carrying novel homozygous SLC30A10
mutations. Gait and speech disturbances, falls, dystonias, and central hypotonia 
were the presenting neurological features, starting within the first 5 years of
life. All children also had severe hypermanganesemia, polycythemia, variable
degree of liver disease, and marked brain MRI T1 hyperintensities.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings expand the mutational and clinical spectra of this
recently recognized disorder. An early diagnosis is warranted, because treatment 
with manganese-chelating agents, iron supplementation, or their combination might
improve symptoms and prevent progression of this otherwise potentially fatal
disease. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25778823  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


328. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 17. doi: 10.1002/mds.26192. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetic risk and age in Parkinson's disease: Continuum not stratum.

Nalls MA(1), Escott-Price V, Williams NM, Lubbe S, Keller MF, Morris HR,
Singleton AB; International Parkinson's Disease Genomics Consortium (IPDGC).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND: Recent genomewide association study meta-analyses have identified 28 
loci associated with risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). We sought to investigate
whether these genetic risk factors are associated with PD age at onset.
METHODS: Genetic risk scores from these loci were calculated for 6,249 cases.
Linear regression tested associations between cumulative genetic risk and PD age 
at onset.
RESULTS: Increasing genetic risk scores were associated with earlier age at onset
(beta = -0.10, P = 2.92 × 10(-8) , adjusted r(2)  = 0.27). Single standard
deviation increase in genetic risk score is associated with 37.44 d earlier age
at onset. Highest genetic risk was found at 31 to 60 y, onset slightly below
average age at onset (AAO).
CONCLUSIONS: Common genetic risk factors have a small but consistent association 
with AAO in PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25778492  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


329. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 17. doi: 10.1002/mds.26189. [Epub ahead of print]

Skin biopsy and I-123 MIBG scintigraphy findings in idiopathic Parkinson's
disease and parkinsonism: A comparative study.

Giannoccaro MP(1), Donadio V, Incensi A, Pizza F, Cason E, Di Stasi V, Martinelli
P, Scaglione C, Capellari S, Treglia G, Liguori R.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e NeuroMotorie, Università di Bologna,
Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: (123) I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine ((123) I-MIBG) myocardial
scintigraphy is considered reliable in differentiating idiopathic Parkinson's
disease (IPD) from other parkinsonisms, but it is biased by pharmacological
treatments. Skin biopsy is not influenced by therapy and has disclosed skin
denervation in IPD. Our aims were to compare (123) I-MIBG scintigraphy and skin
biopsy findings in IPD and parkinsonisms to (1) verify whether myocardial and
skin denervations are linked; (2) explore the simultaneous extent of the
autonomic dysfunction.
METHODS: We studied 22 IPD and 11 parkinsonism patients by means of (123) I-MIBG 
scintigraphy and skin biopsies.
RESULTS: In the IPD group, both (123) I-MIBG scintigraphy and skin biopsy results
were abnormal in 91% of patients, showing concordance in 82% of cases. In
parkinsonisms, results of both tests were normal in all patients.
CONCLUSION: (1) Skin biopsy and (123) I-MIBG scintigraphy provide comparable
results; (2) in IPD, autonomic dysfunctions are often simultaneously widespread
at cardiac and skin branches. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25778097  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


330. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):624-31. doi: 10.1002/mds.26184. Epub 2015 Mar 17.

Spotlight on movement disorders: What optogenetics has to offer.

Rossi MA(1), Calakos N, Yin HH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Duke University, Durham, North
Carolina, USA.

Elucidating the neuronal mechanisms underlying movement disorders is a major
challenge because of the intricacy of the relevant neural circuits, which are
characterized by diverse cell types and complex connectivity. A major limitation 
of traditional techniques, such as electrical stimulation or lesions, is that
individual elements of a neural circuit cannot be selectively manipulated.
Moreover, available treatments are largely based on trial and error rather than a
detailed understanding of the circuit mechanisms. Gaps in our knowledge of the
circuit mechanisms for movement disorders, as well as mechanisms underlying known
treatments such as deep brain stimulation, make it difficult to design new and
improved treatment options. In this perspective, we discuss how optogenetics,
which allows researchers to use light to manipulate neuronal activity, can
contribute to the understanding and treatment of movement disorders. We outline
the advantages and limitations of optogenetics and discuss examples of studies
that have used this tool to clarify the role of the basal ganglia circuitry in
movement. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4397176 [Available on 2016-04-15]
PMID: 25777796  [PubMed - in process]


331. J Psychosom Res. 2015 May;78(5):411-419. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2015.02.012.
Epub 2015 Feb 26.

Cognitive behavioural interventions for depression in chronic neurological
conditions: A systematic review.

Fernie BA(1), Kollmann J(2), Brown RG(3).

Author information: 
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Department of Psychology,
London, UK; CASCAID, South London & Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
Electronic address: Bruce.Fernie@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Philipps University Marburg,
Institute of Psychology, Germany; King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry,
Department of Psychology, London, UK. (3)King's College London, Institute of
Psychiatry, Department of Psychology, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Chronic neurological conditions (CNCs) affect over one million people 
in the UK alone. Individuals with CNCs endure an increased prevalence of comorbid
depression and anxiety. Poor mental health exacerbates the cost of the treatment 
and management of CNCs. CBT is recommended for the treatment of depression.
However the application of CBT to individuals with CNCs may be limited by disease
characteristics (e.g. mobility issues restricting therapy attendance and reducing
engagement with behavioural activation, as well as difficulties challenging the
veracity of disease-related negative thoughts that may reflect accurate
appraisals). The objective of this review is to assess the clinical effectiveness
of cognitive and behavioural interventions for depressive symptoms in individuals
with non-acquired, medically explained CNCs.
DATA SOURCES: Searches of The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, PubMed, and
PsychINFO were conducted.
RESULTS: All studies suggested that CBT is an effective treatment for depression 
comorbid to CNCs, however when CBT was compared to an active therapy control
condition, between group differences were unstable.
CONCLUSION: CBT has promise for the treatment for depression in such conditions; 
however treatment protocols and outcome measures should be adapted for this
population. Future trials should control for non-specific effects of therapy and,
as much as possible, introduce blinding into methodologies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25777621  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


332. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 May;11(5):300-305. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2015.34. Epub 2015 
Mar 17.

The promise of futility trials in neurological diseases.

Koch MW(1), Korngut L(2), Patry DG(2), Agha-Khani Y(2), White C(2), Sarna JR(2), 
Yeung M(2), Yong VW(2), Heng DY(3), Cutter G(4), Metz L(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Foothills Hospital, University of
Calgary, 1403 29th Street NW, Calgary, AB T2N 2T9, Canada. [2] Department of
Community Health Sciences, TRW Building, University of Calgary, 3280 Hospital
Drive NW, Calgary, AB T2N 4Z6, Canada. (2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
Foothills Hospital, University of Calgary, 1403 29th Street NW, Calgary, AB T2N
2T9, Canada. (3)Department of Oncology, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, 1331 29th Street
NW, Calgary, AB T2N 4N2, Canada. (4)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 1665 University Boulevard,
Birmingham, AL 35294-0022, USA.

Double-blinded randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have contributed much
important evidence to guide treatment decisions in neurology. RCTs are relatively
straightforward to conduct, provided that they investigate common diseases, have 
clearly defined outcome measures, and are of short duration. In neurology,
however, many diseases are uncommon, have no consensus outcome measures, and
develop over decades. Basic research into neurological diseases continues to
identify candidate therapies faster than they can be tested for their clinical
utility, leading to a 'translational gap'. Futility trials were initially
developed in oncology to efficiently test candidate therapies in phase II trials.
As single-arm unblinded studies, futility trials are relatively easy to conduct, 
and they generally require smaller sample sizes than RCTs. In this article, we
discuss futility models, highlighting their advantages as well as challenges to
their application in several neurological diseases, including Parkinson disease, 
stroke and multiple sclerosis.

PMID: 25776824  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


333. Biomed Pharmacother. 2015 Mar;70:283-93. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2015.01.029. Epub 
2015 Feb 7.

Neurobiology of l-DOPA induced dyskinesia and the novel therapeutic strategies.

Sharma S(1), Singh S(1), Sharma V(1), Singh VP(1), Deshmukh R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of
Pharmacy, Moga 142001, Punjab, India. (2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department
of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga 142001, Punjab, India. Electronic 
address: login2rd@gmail.com.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder characterized by tremors,
rigidity and bradykinesia. PD is caused by selective degeneration of the
dopaminergic neurons, which originate in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc)
and project into the striatum. Levodopa is the most effective drug, used in the
treatment of PD. However, the long-term use of levodopa produce complications
which are highly disabling fluctuations and dyskinesias and representing one of
the major challenge to the existing drug therapy of PD. Recent studies has
indicated that the pulsatile stimulation of striatal postsynaptic receptors led
to sensitization of dopaminergic receptors which leads to levodopa induced
dyskinesias. In spite of the extensive research in this field, the pathogenesis
of levodopa induced dyskinesia is still unclear. In recent years animal models of
PD has provided important information to understand the effect of specific
receptors and post-receptor molecular mechanisms underlying the development of
dyskinetic movements. The present review is aimed to discuss the neurobiological 
mechanisms of levodopa induced dyskinesia and the therapeutic strategies to
overcome this problem.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25776513  [PubMed - in process]


334. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Feb 27;9:58. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00058. eCollection
2015.

Epigenetic mechanisms in neurological and neurodegenerative diseases.

Landgrave-Gómez J(1), Mercado-Gómez O(1), Guevara-Guzmán R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Departamento de Fisiología, Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México México, D.F., México.

The role of epigenetic mechanisms in the function and homeostasis of the central 
nervous system (CNS) and its regulation in diseases is one of the most
interesting processes of contemporary neuroscience. In the last decade, a growing
body of literature suggests that long-term changes in gene transcription
associated with CNS's regulation and neurological disorders are mediated via
modulation of chromatin structure. "Epigenetics", introduced for the first time
by Waddington in the early 1940s, has been traditionally referred to a variety of
mechanisms that allow heritable changes in gene expression even in the absence of
DNA mutation. However, new definitions acknowledge that many of these mechanisms 
used to perpetuate epigenetic traits in dividing cells are used by neurons to
control a variety of functions dependent on gene expression. Indeed, in the
recent years these mechanisms have shown their importance in the maintenance of a
healthy CNS. Moreover, environmental inputs that have shown effects in CNS
diseases, such as nutrition, that can modulate the concentration of a variety of 
metabolites such as acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-coA), nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide (NAD(+)) and beta hydroxybutyrate (β-HB), regulates some of these
epigenetic modifications, linking in a precise way environment with gene
expression. This manuscript will portray what is currently understood about the
role of epigenetic mechanisms in the function and homeostasis of the CNS and
their participation in a variety of neurological disorders. We will discuss how
the machinery that controls these modifications plays an important role in
processes involved in neurological disorders such as neurogenesis and cell
growth. Moreover, we will discuss how environmental inputs modulate these
modifications producing metabolic and physiological alterations that could exert 
beneficial effects on neurological diseases. Finally, we will highlight possible 
future directions in the field of epigenetics and neurological disorders.

PMCID: PMC4343006
PMID: 25774124  [PubMed]


335. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):662-70. doi: 10.1002/mds.26181. Epub 2015 Mar 15.

In vivo neurometabolic profiling in patients with spinocerebellar ataxia types 1,
2, 3, and 7.

Adanyeguh IM(1), Henry PG, Nguyen TM, Rinaldi D, Jauffret C, Valabregue R, Emir
UE, Deelchand DK, Brice A, Eberly LE, Öz G, Durr A, Mochel F.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 1127, Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris Institut du Cerveau et de
la Moelle épinière, ICM, Paris, France.

Spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) belong to polyglutamine repeat disorders and are
characterized by a predominant atrophy of the cerebellum and the pons. Proton
magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1) H MRS) using an optimized semiadiabatic
localization by adiabatic selective refocusing (semi-LASER) protocol was
performed at 3 T to determine metabolite concentrations in the cerebellar vermis 
and pons of a cohort of patients with SCA1 (n = 16), SCA2 (n = 12), SCA3
(n = 21), and SCA7 (n = 12) and healthy controls (n = 33). Compared with
controls, patients displayed lower total N-acetylaspartate and, to a lesser
extent, lower glutamate, reflecting neuronal loss/dysfunction, whereas the glial 
marker, myoinositol (myo-Ins), was elevated. Patients also showed higher total
creatine as reported in Huntington's disease, another polyglutamine repeat
disorder. A strong correlation was found between the Scale for the Assessment and
Rating of Ataxia and the neurometabolites in both affected regions of patients.
Principal component analyses confirmed that neuronal metabolites (total
N-acetylaspartate and glutamate) were inversely correlated in the vermis and the 
pons to glial (myo-Ins) and energetic (total creatine) metabolites, as well as to
disease severity (motor scales). Neurochemical plots with selected metabolites
also allowed the separation of SCA2 and SCA3 from controls. The neurometabolic
profiles detected in patients underlie cell-specific changes in neuronal and
astrocytic compartments that cannot be assessed by other neuroimaging modalities.
The inverse correlation between metabolites from these two compartments suggests 
a metabolic attempt to compensate for neuronal damage in SCAs. Because these
biomarkers reflect dynamic aspects of cellular metabolism, they are good
candidates for proof-of-concept therapeutic trials. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4397159 [Available on 2016-04-15]
PMID: 25773989  [PubMed - in process]


336. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):472-83. doi: 10.1002/mds.26177. Epub 2015 Mar 15.

Dopamine signals and physiological origin of cognitive dysfunction in Parkinson's
disease.

Matsumoto M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience, Division of Biomedical
Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

The pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the degeneration of
midbrain dopamine neurons. Cognitive dysfunction is a feature of PD patients even
at the early stages of the disease. Electrophysiological studies on dopamine
neurons in awake animals provide contradictory accounts of the role of dopamine. 
These studies have established that dopamine neurons convey a unique signal
associated with rewards rather than cognitive functions. Emphasizing their role
in reward processing leads to difficulty in developing hypothesis as to how
cognitive impairments in PD are associated with the degeneration of dopamine
circuitry. A hint to resolve this contradiction came from recent
electrophysiological studies reporting that dopamine neurons transmit more
diverse signals than previously thought. These studies suggest that dopamine
neurons are divided into at least two functional subgroups, one signaling
"motivational value" and the other signaling "salience." The former subgroup fits
well with the conventional reward theory, whereas the latter subgroup has been
shown to transmit signals related to salient but non-rewarding experiences such
as aversive stimulations and cognitively demanding situations. This article
reviews recent advances in understanding the non-reward functions of dopamine,
and then discusses the possibility that cognitive dysfunction in PD is at least
partially caused by the degeneration of the dopamine neuron subgroup signaling
the salience of events in the environment. 2015 International Parkinson and
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25773863  [PubMed - in process]


337. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/mds.26171. [Epub ahead of print]

Dorsolateral nigral hyperintensity on 3.0T susceptibility-weighted imaging in
neurodegenerative Parkinsonism.

Reiter E(1), Mueller C, Pinter B, Krismer F, Scherfler C, Esterhammer R, Kremser 
C, Schocke M, Wenning GK, Poewe W, Seppi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.

Absence of a hyperintense, ovoid area within the dorsolateral border of the
otherwise hypointense pars compacta of the substantia nigra (referred to as
dorsolateral nigral hyperintensity) on iron-sensitive high-field magnetic
resonance imaging sequences seems to be a typical finding for patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD). This study was undertaken to evaluate the diagnostic
value of the dorsolateral nigral hyperintensity in a cohort of patients with
neurodegenerative parkinsonism including PD, multiple system atrophy (MSA), and
progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) as well as healthy controls using high-field
susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI) at 3.0 Tesla (T). Absence of dorsolateral
nigral hyperintensity was assessed on visual inspection of anonymized 3.0T SWI
scans in a case-control study including 148 patients with neurodegenerative
parkinsonism (PD: n = 104; MSA: n = 22; PSP: n = 22) and 42 healthy controls.
Dorsolateral nigral hyperintensity was absent unilaterally in all patients with
MSA or PSP, in 83 of 90 patients with PD, but only in one of the healthy controls
resulting in an overall correct classification of 95.2% in discriminating
neurodegenerative parkinsonism from controls in the per-protocol analysis.
Overall correct classification was 93.2% in the intent-to-diagnose analysis,
including also SWI scans with poor quality (12.1% of all scans) for nigral
evaluation. Visual assessment of dorsolateral nigral hyperintensity on high-field
SWI scans may serve as a new simple diagnostic imaging marker for
neurodegenerative parkinsonian disorders. © 2015 International Parkinson and
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25773707  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


338. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Mar;1337:241-8. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12616.

Musical tasks targeting preserved and impaired functions in two dementias.

Halpern AR(1), Golden HL, Magdalinou N, Witoonpanich P, Warren JD.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

Studies of musical abilities in dementia have for the most part been rather
general assessments of abilities, for instance, assessing retention of music
learned premorbidly. Here, we studied patients with dementias with contrasting
cognitive profiles to explore specific aspects of music cognition under
challenge. Patients suffered from Alzheimer's disease (AD), in which a primary
impairment is in forming new declarative memories, or Lewy body disease (PD/LBD),
a type of parkinsonism in which executive impairments are prominent. In the AD
patients, we examined musical imagery. Behavioral and neural evidence confirms
involvement of perceptual networks in imagery, and these are relatively spared in
early stages of the illness. Thus, we expected patients to have relatively intact
imagery in a mental pitch comparison task. For the LBD patients, we tested
whether executive dysfunction would extend to music. We probed inhibitory skills 
by asking for a speeded pitch or timbre judgment when the irrelevant dimension
was held constant or also changed. Preliminary results show that AD patients
score similarly to controls in the imagery tasks, but PD/LBD patients are
impaired relative to controls in suppressing some irrelevant musical dimensions, 
particularly when the required judgment varies from trial to trial.

© 2014 The Authors. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences published by Wiley
Periodicals Inc. on behalf of The New York Academy of Sciences.

PMCID: PMC4401999
PMID: 25773640  [PubMed - in process]


339. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Mar;1337:111-7. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12615.

Impaired movement timing in neurological disorders: rehabilitation and treatment 
strategies.

Hove MJ(1), Keller PE.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Timing abnormalities have been reported in many neurological disorders, including
Parkinson's disease (PD). In PD, motor-timing impairments are especially
debilitating in gait. Despite impaired audiomotor synchronization, PD patients'
gait improves when they walk with an auditory metronome or with music. Building
on that research, we make recommendations for optimizing sensory cues to improve 
the efficacy of rhythmic cuing in gait rehabilitation. Adaptive rhythmic
metronomes (that synchronize with the patient's walking) might be especially
effective. In a recent study we showed that adaptive metronomes synchronized
consistently with PD patients' footsteps without requiring attention; this
improved stability and reinstated healthy gait dynamics. Other strategies could
help optimize sensory cues for gait rehabilitation. Groove music strongly engages
the motor system and induces movement; bass-frequency tones are associated with
movement and provide strong timing cues. Thus, groove and bass-frequency pulses
could deliver potent rhythmic cues. These strategies capitalize on the close
neural connections between auditory and motor networks; and auditory cues are
typically preferred. However, moving visual cues greatly improve visuomotor
synchronization and could warrant examination in gait rehabilitation. Together, a
treatment approach that employs groove, auditory, bass-frequency, and adaptive
(GABA) cues could help optimize rhythmic sensory cues for treating motor and
timing deficits.

© 2014 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMCID: PMC4363094 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25773624  [PubMed - in process]


340. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Mar;1337:77-85. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12651.

Effects of musically cued gait training in Parkinson's disease: beyond a motor
benefit.

Bella SD(1), Benoit CE, Farrugia N, Schwartze M, Kotz SA.

Author information: 
(1)Movement to Health Laboratory, EuroMov, University of Montpellier-1,
Montpellier, France; Institut Universitaire de France, France; Department of
Cognitive Psychology, WSFiZ, Warsaw, Poland.

Auditory stimulation via rhythmic cues can be used successfully in the
rehabilitation of motor function in patients with motor disorders. A prototypical
example is provided by dysfunctional gait in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's
disease (PD). Coupling steps to external rhythmic cues (the beat of music or the 
sounds of a metronome) leads to long-term motor improvements, such as increased
walking speed and greater stride length. These effects are likely to be
underpinned by compensatory brain mechanisms involving cerebellar-thalamocortical
networks. Because these areas are also involved in perceptual and motor timing,
parallel improvement in timing tasks is expected in PD beyond purely motor
benefits. In keeping with this idea, we report here recent behavioral data
showing beneficial effects of musically cued gait training (MCGT) on gait
performance (i.e., increased stride length and speed), perceptual timing (e.g.,
discriminating stimulus durations), and sensorimotor timing abilities (i.e., in
paced tapping tasks) in PD patients. Particular attention is paid to individual
differences in timing abilities in PD, thus paving the ground for an
individualized MCGT-based therapy.

© 2015 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 25773620  [PubMed - in process]


341. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Mar;1337:62-8. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12657.

Can rhythmic auditory cuing remediate language-related deficits in Parkinson's
disease?

Kotz SA(1), Gunter TC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychological Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, United
Kingdom; Department of Neuropsychology, Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive 
and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, Germany.

Neurodegenerative changes of the basal ganglia in idiopathic Parkinson's disease 
(IPD) lead to motor deficits as well as general cognitive decline. Given these
impairments, the question arises as to whether motor and nonmotor deficits can be
ameliorated similarly. We reason that a domain-general sensorimotor circuit
involved in temporal processing may support the remediation of such deficits.
Following findings that auditory cuing benefits gait kinematics, we explored
whether reported language-processing deficits in IPD can also be remediated via
auditory cuing. During continuous EEG measurement, an individual diagnosed with
IPD heard two types of temporally predictable but metrically different auditory
beat-based cues: a march, which metrically aligned with the speech accent
structure, a waltz that did not metrically align, or no cue before listening to
naturally spoken sentences that were either grammatically well formed or were
semantically or syntactically incorrect. Results confirmed that only the cuing
with a march led to improved computation of syntactic and semantic information.
We infer that a marching rhythm may lead to a stronger engagement of the
cerebello-thalamo-cortical circuit that compensates dysfunctional
striato-cortical timing. Reinforcing temporal realignment, in turn, may lead to
the timely processing of linguistic information embedded in the temporally
variable speech signal.

© 2014 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 25773618  [PubMed - in process]


342. Ann Neurol. 2015 Apr;77(4):582-91. doi: 10.1002/ana.24335. Epub 2015 Mar 13.

Polygenic risk of Parkinson disease is correlated with disease age at onset.

Escott-Price V(1); International Parkinson's Disease Genomics Consortium, Nalls
MA, Morris HR, Lubbe S, Brice A, Gasser T, Heutink P, Wood NW, Hardy J, Singleton
AB, Williams NM; IPDGC consortium members.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, Medical
Research Council Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Department of
Psychological Medicine and Neurology, Cardiff University School of Medicine,
Cardiff, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: We have investigated the polygenic architecture of Parkinson disease
(PD) and have also explored the potential relationship between an individual's
polygenic risk score and their disease age at onset.
METHODS: This study used genotypic data from 4,294 cases and 10,340 controls
obtained from the meta-analysis of PD genome-wide association studies. Polygenic 
score analysis was performed as previously described by the International
Schizophrenia Consortium, testing whether the polygenic score alleles identified 
in 1 association study were significantly enriched in the cases relative to the
controls of 3 independent studies. Linear regression was used to investigate the 
relationship between an individual's polygenic score for PD risk alleles and
disease age at onset.
RESULTS: Our polygenic score analysis has identified significant evidence for a
polygenic component enriched in the cases of each of 3 independent PD genome-wide
association cohorts (minimum p = 3.76 × 10(-6) ). Further analysis identified
compelling evidence that the average polygenic score in patients with an early
disease age at onset was significantly higher than in those with a late age at
onset (p = 0.00014).
INTERPRETATION: This provides strong support for a large polygenic contribution
to the overall heritable risk of PD and also suggests that early onset forms of
the illness are not exclusively caused by highly penetrant Mendelian mutations,
but can also be contributed to by an accumulation of common polygenic alleles
with relatively low effect sizes. Ann Neurol 2015;77:582-591.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25773351  [PubMed - in process]


343. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2015 Mar 12. pii: S1084-9521(15)00045-2. doi:
10.1016/j.semcdb.2015.03.002. [Epub ahead of print]

The kynurenine pathway and neurodegenerative disease.

Maddison DC(1), Giorgini F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, University Road, Leicester
LE1 7RH, UK. (2)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, University Road,
Leicester LE1 7RH, UK. Electronic address: fg36@le.ac.uk.

Neuroactive metabolites of the kynurenine pathway (KP) of tryptophan degradation 
have been closely linked to the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative
diseases. Tryptophan is an essential amino acid required for protein synthesis,
and in higher eukaryotes is also converted into the key neurotransmitters
serotonin and tryptamine. However, in mammals >95% of tryptophan is metabolized
through the KP, ultimately leading to the production of nicotinamide adenosine
dinucleotide (NAD(+)). A number of the pathway metabolites are neuroactive; e.g. 
can modulate activity of several glutamate receptors and generate/scavenge free
radicals. Imbalances in absolute and relative levels of KP metabolites have been 
strongly associated with neurodegenerative disorders including Huntington's,
Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's diseases. The KP has also been implicated in the
pathogenesis of other brain disorders (e.g. schizophrenia, bipolar disorder), as 
well as several cancers and autoimmune disorders such as HIV. Pharmacological and
genetic manipulation of the KP has been shown to ameliorate neurodegenerative
phenotypes in a number of model organisms, suggesting that it could prove to be a
viable target for the treatment of such diseases. Here, we provide an overview of
the KP, its role in neurodegeneration and the current strategies for therapeutic 
targeting of the pathway.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25773161  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


344. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/mds.26204. [Epub ahead of print]

Nonmotor Symptoms in Subjects Without Evidence of Dopaminergic Deficits.

Sprenger FS(1), Seppi K, Djamshidian A, Reiter E, Nocker M, Mair K, Göbel G,
Poewe W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.

BACKGROUND: A subgroup of patients initially diagnosed with Parkinson's disease
(PD) turn out to have normal dopamine transporter single-photon emission computed
tomography imaging and have been labeled as subjects without evidence of
dopaminergic deficit (SWEDDs). In this study, we sought to further characterize
these patients and have analyzed the frequency of nonmotor symptoms (NMS) in
SWEDDs, PD patients, and healthy controls.
METHODS: We analyzed the baseline clinical data of 412 PD patients, 184 controls,
and 62 SWEDDs included in the Parkinson's Progression Marker Initiative study on 
a variety of different NMS questionnaires.
RESULTS: Both PD patients and SWEDDs had greater frequency of NMS than healthy
controls. Furthermore, some NMS, such as orthostatic hypotension as well as
cardiovascular and thermoregulatory dysfunction were even more commonly reported 
in SWEDDs than in PD patients, whereas hyposmia was more common in PD, compared
to SWEDDs.
CONCLUSION: NMS are more frequent in SWEDDs than in controls, and autonomic
dysfunction and orthostatic hypotension were even more common than in PD
patients. These findings support the notion that SWEDDS represent a group of
patients with still poorly understood pathophysiology. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25772612  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


345. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/mds.26201. [Epub ahead of print]

Automated Neuromelanin Imaging as a Diagnostic Biomarker for Parkinson's Disease.

Castellanos G(1), Fernández-Seara MA, Lorenzo-Betancor O, Ortega-Cubero S,
Puigvert M, Uranga J, Vidorreta M, Irigoyen J, Lorenzo E, Muñoz-Barrutia A,
Ortiz-de-Solorzano C, Pastor P, Pastor MA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimaging Laboratory, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; CIBERNED,
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas,
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.

We aimed to analyze the diagnostic accuracy of an automated segmentation and
quantification method of the SNc and locus coeruleus (LC) volumes based on
neuromelanin (NM)-sensitive MRI (NM-MRI) in patients with idiopathic (iPD) and
monogenic (iPD) Parkinson's disease (PD). Thirty-six patients (23 idiopathic and 
13 monogenic PARKIN or LRRK2 mutations) and 37 age-matched healthy controls
underwent 3T-NM-MRI. SNc and LC volumetry were performed using fully automated
multi-image atlas segmentation. The diagnostic performance to differentiate PD
from controls was measured using the area under the curve (AUC) and likelihood
ratios based on receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses. We found a
significant reduction of SNc and LC volumes in patients, when compared to
controls. ROC analysis showed better diagnostic accuracy when using SNc volume
than LC volume. Significant differences between ipsilateral and contralateral SNc
volumes, in relation to the more clinically affected side, were found in patients
with iPD (P = 0.007). Contralateral atrophy in the SNc showed the highest power
to discriminate PD subjects from controls (AUC, 0.93-0.94; sensitivity, 91%-92%; 
specificity, 89%; positive likelihood ratio: 8.4-8.5; negative likelihood ratio: 
0.09-0.1 at a single cut-off point). Interval likelihood ratios for contralateral
SNc volume improved the diagnostic accuracy of volumetric measurements. SNc and
LC volumetry based on NM-MRI resulting from the automated segmentation and
quantification technique can yield high diagnostic accuracy for differentiating
PD from health and might be an unbiased disease biomarker. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25772492  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


346. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/mds.26199. [Epub ahead of print]

Selective dysfunction of basal ganglia subterritories: From movement to
behavioral disorders.

Tremblay L(1), Worbe Y, Thobois S, Sgambato-Faure V, Féger J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Neurosciences Cognitives-UMR 5229, CNRS-Université de Lyon 1, Bron, 
France.

Historically, Parkinson's disease (PD) was defined as a pure movement disorder.
Currently, it is widely accepted that this disease is also characterized by
nonmotor signs, such as depression, apathy, and anxiety. On the other hand, the
consideration of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) as a neuropsychiatric
disorder has also been debated. In this review, we will focus on these two
disorders, which combine both motor and behavioral features and in which
dysfunction of cortical and subcortical regions was suggested. Anatomical,
experimental, and clinical data are reported to support the involvement of basal 
ganglia (BG) in cognitive and motivational functions in addition to motor
control. In PD, the nonmotor signs could result from the heterogeneity of
dopaminergic lesions and excessive activation of the dopamine receptors,
particularly within the limbic neuronal networks. Experimental results obtained
on nonhuman primates using local disinhibition within functional territories of
BG allowed the precise mapping of their motor and nonmotor functions. Thus,
impairment of inhibitory control inside specific striatal territories induced
behavioral disorders and abnormal movements, which had striking similarities to
clinical expressions of GTS. Establishing such a relationship between BG
subterritories and motor and behavioral disorders could potentially be helpful
for future target choices for DBS in many neuropsychiatric disorders.
Furthermore, it is also of great interest for therapeutic research and for the
efficient targeting of symptom relief to determine the precise pharmacological
effects of the two main modulators of BG function, which are dopamine and
serotonin. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25772380  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


347. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):509-13. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.023. Epub 2015 Mar 4.

Freezing of gait and affective theory of mind in Parkinson disease.

Raffo De Ferrari A(1), Lagravinese G(2), Pelosin E(1), Pardini M(1), Serrati
C(3), Abbruzzese G(1), Avanzino L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics and
Maternal Child Health, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy. (2)Department of
Experimental Medicine, Section of Human Physiology and Centro Polifunzionale di
Scienze Motorie, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy. (3)Department of Neurology,
IRCCS S. Martino Hospital-IST, Genoa, Italy. (4)Department of Experimental
Medicine, Section of Human Physiology and Centro Polifunzionale di Scienze
Motorie, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy. Electronic address:
laura.avanzino@unige.it.

BACKGROUND: Affective "Theory of Mind" (ToM) is the specific ability to represent
own and others' emotional states and feelings. Several studies examined affective
ToM ability in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), using the "Reading the
Mind in the Eyes test" (RMET). However, there has been no agreement as to whether
or not affective ToM ability is impaired in PD and such discrepancy may be due to
the heterogeneous clinical presentation of PD. Affective disturbance has been
linked to the akinetic-rigid form of PD and to gait disturbances, like freezing
of gait (FOG). Particularly, FOG has been associated with dysfunction in striatum
ability of processing affective inputs. Here we hypothesized that the presence of
FOG can be associated with impaired affective ToM ability in PD patients.
METHODS: We evaluated ToM by means of RMET and executive functions using the
Tower Of London (ToL) test in 29 PD patients (15 with FOG and 14 without FOG) and
19 healthy age-matched subjects.
RESULTS: Our results showed that affective ToM is abnormal in PD patients,
compared to healthy subjects and that it is more impaired in patients with FOG
than in patients without FOG. Further, PD patients with FOG performed worse than 
PD patients without FOG on the ToL test.
CONCLUSION: The affective aspects of ToM can be associated to FOG in patients
with PD, thus supporting the idea that FOG is caused by a complex interplay
between motor, cognitive and affective factors, rather than being a pure motor
problem.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25772323  [PubMed - in process]


348. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/mds.26197. [Epub ahead of print]

Dopaminergic regulation of olfactory type G-protein α subunit expression in the
striatum.

Ruiz-DeDiego I(1), Naranjo JR, Hervé D, Moratalla R.

Author information: 
(1)Cajal Institute, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC),
CIBERNED, Madrid, Spain; CIBERNED, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, CIBERNED,
Madrid, Spain.

In rodents, the olfactory type G-protein α subunit (Gαolf) couples the dopamine
D1 receptor (D1R) to adenylyl cyclase, triggering intracellular signaling and
neuronal activation. In the striatum, Gαolf is enriched in the striosomes.
Changes in Gαolf protein levels have been observed after dopamine depletion.
However, the regulation of Gαolf expression by dopamine and dopamine receptors is
not fully understood. To address this, Striatal Gαolf expression pattern was
studied in wild-type and genetically engineered mice lacking D1R, D2R (D2
receptor), and downstream regulatory element antagonist modulator (DREAM) protein
whose dopamine levels were manipulated. Dopamine depletion was accomplished by
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or by Pitx3 ablation, and dopamine replacement by
chronic levodopa (l-dopa). The Gαolf levels were analyzed by
immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and real-time quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (RT-qPCR). Our results demostrate that Dopamine depletion or
inactivation of D1R abolished the striosomal pattern of Gαolf expression and
increased Gαolf protein levels. Dopamine replacement in wild-type lesioned mice
reestablished both the expression pattern and protein levels, but paradoxically
increased Gαolf messenger RNA (mRNA). In D1R(-/-) mice, dopamine depletion
decreased striatal Gαolf expression, whereas l-dopa did not restore either Gαolf 
levels or its expression pattern. Inactivation of D2R or changes in the cAMP/PKA 
signaling pathway downstream of Gαolf did not modify its expression. Our results 
show a homeostatic, negative regulation of Gαolf by dopamine and by D1R
stimulation, which are also required for the striosomal Gαolf pattern. These
results shed light on the regulation of Gαolf by dopamine signaling that could be
involved in the pathophysiology of the maladaptive response to chronic l-dopa
treatment in Parkinson's disease. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25772224  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


349. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/mds.26196. [Epub ahead of print]

Mosaic dominant TUBB4A mutation in an inbred family with complicated hereditary
spastic paraplegia.

Kancheva D(1), Chamova T, Guergueltcheva V, Mitev V, Azmanov DN, Kalaydjieva L,
Tournev I, Jordanova A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurogenomics Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB, Antwerp,
Belgium; Neurogenetics Laboratory, Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp,
Antwerp, Belgium; Department of Medical Chemistry and Biochemistry, Molecular
Medicine Center, Medical University-Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.

BACKGROUND: Mutations in TUBB4A have been associated with a spectrum of
neurological conditions, ranging from the severe hypomyelination with atrophy of 
the basal ganglia and cerebellum syndrome to the clinically milder dystonia type 
4. The presence of movement abnormalities was considered the common hallmark of
these disorders.
METHODS: Clinical, neurological, and neuroimaging examinations, followed by whole
exome sequencing and mutation analysis, were performed in a highly consanguineous
pedigree with five affected children.
RESULTS: We identified a novel c.568C>T (p.H190Y) TUBB4A mutation that originated
de novo in the asymptomatic mother. The affected subjects presented with an
early-onset, slowly progressive spastic paraparesis of the lower limbs, ataxia,
and brain hypomyelination, in the absence of dystonia or rigidity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study adds complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia to the
clinical spectrum of TUBB4A-associated neurological disorders. We establish
genotype-phenotype correlations with mutations located in the same region in the 
tertiary structure of the protein. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25772097  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


350. Exp Neurol. 2015 May;267:165-76. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.03.002. Epub 2015 
Mar 12.

Increased brain bio-distribution and chemical stability and decreased
immunogenicity of an engineered variant of GDNF.

Smith RC(1), O'Bryan LM(2), Mitchell PJ(3), Leung D(4), Ghanem M(5), Wilson
JM(6), Hanson JC(7), Sossick S(8), Cooper J(9), Huang L(10), Merchant KM(11), Lu 
J(12), O'Neill MJ(13).

Author information: 
(1)Eli Lilly & Co., Biotechnology Discovery Research, Lilly Corporate Center,
Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. Electronic address: smith_ros@lilly.com. (2)Eli
Lilly & Co., Biotechnology Discovery Research, Lilly Corporate Center,
Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. Electronic address: o'bryan_linda_maureen@lilly.com.
(3)Eli Lilly & Co., Biotechnology Discovery Research, Lilly Corporate Center,
Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. Electronic address: mitchell_pamela@lilly.com.
(4)Eli Lilly & Co., Lilly Biotechnology Center, 10300 Campus Point Dr, Suite 200,
San Diego, CA 92121, USA. Electronic address: leung_donmienne@lilly.com. (5)Eli
Lilly & Co., Biotechnology Discovery Research, Lilly Corporate Center,
Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. Electronic address: mahmoud.ghanem@siemens.com.
(6)Eli Lilly & Co., Tailored Therapeutics, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, 
IN 46285, USA. Electronic address: wilson_jonathan_matthew@lilly.com. (7)Eli
Lilly & Co., Information Technology, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN
46285, USA. Electronic address: hanson_jeffrey_c@lilly.com. (8)Eli Lilly & Co.
Ltd, Erl Wood Manor, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6PH, UK. Electronic address:
sossick_sandra@lilly.com. (9)Eli Lilly & Co. Ltd, Erl Wood Manor, Windlesham,
Surrey GU20 6PH, UK. Electronic address: cooper_jane_x1@lilly.com. (10)Eli Lilly 
& Co., Bioproduct Research and Development, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA.
Electronic address: huang_lihua@lilly.com. (11)Eli Lilly & Co., Tailored
Therapeutics, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. Electronic
address: merchant.transthera@gmail.com. (12)Eli Lilly & Co., Biotechnology
Discovery Research, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA.
Electronic address: lu_jirong@lilly.com. (13)Eli Lilly & Co. Ltd, Erl Wood Manor,
Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6PH, UK. Electronic address: oneill_michael_j@lilly.com.

Several lines of evidence indicate that Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic
factor (GDNF) is a trophic factor for dopaminergic neurons. Direct parenchymal
administration of GDNF is robustly neuroprotective and neurorestorative in
multiple neurotoxin-based animal models (rat and non-human primate (NHP)) of
Parkinson's Disease (PD), suggesting its potential as a therapeutic agent.
Although small, open-label clinical trials of intra-putamenal administration of
bacteria-derived, full length, wild type GDNF (GDNFwt) were efficacious in
improving standardized behavioral scores, a double-blinded, randomized controlled
trial failed to do so. We hypothesize that the lack of clinical efficacy of
GDNFwt in the larger randomized trial was due to poor bio-distribution in the
putamen and/or poor chemical stability while in the delivery device for prolonged
time periods at 37°C. The development of neutralizing antibodies in some patients
may also have been a contributing factor. GDNFv is an engineered form of GDNFwt, 
expressed and purified from mammalian cells, designed to overcome these
limitations, including removal of the N-terminal heparin-binding domain to
improve its diffusivity in brain parenchyma by reducing its binding to
extracellular matrix (ECM), and key amino acid substitutions to improve chemical 
stability. Intra-striatal administration of a single injection of GDNFv in the
rat produced significantly greater brain distribution than GDNFwt, consistent
with reduced binding to ECM. Using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry
(LS/MS) methods GDNFv was shown to have improved chemical stability compared to
GDNFwt when stored at 37°C for 4weeks. In addition, GDNFv resulted in lower
predicted clinical immunogenicity compared to GDNFwt, as demonstrated by reduced 
CD4+ T cell proliferation and reduced IL-2-induced secretion in peripheral blood 
mononucleated cells collected from volunteers representing the world's major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotypes. GDNFv was demonstrated to be
pharmacologically equivalent to GDNFwt in the key parameters in vitro of GFRα1
receptor binding, c-Ret phosphorylation, neurite outgrowth, and in vivo in its
ability to increase dopamine turnover (DA). GDNFv protected dopamine nerve
terminals and neurons in a 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA) rat model. In summary, we 
empirically demonstrate the superior properties of GDNFv compared to GDNFwt
through enhanced bio-distribution and chemical stability concurrently with
decreased predicted clinical immunogenicity while maintaining pharmacological and
neurotrophic activity. These data indicate that GDNFv is an improved version of
GDNF suitable for clinical assessment as a targeted regenerative therapy for PD.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25771799  [PubMed - in process]


351. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 May;36(5):1924-37. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.02.011. Epub 2015 Feb 18.

Heat shock protein defenses in the neocortex and allocortex of the telencephalon.

Posimo JM(1), Weilnau JN(1), Gleixner AM(1), Broeren MT(1), Weiland NL(1),
Brodsky JL(2), Wipf P(3), Leak RK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA,
USA. (3)Department of Chemistry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA;
Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA. (4)Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA,
USA. Electronic address: leakr@duq.edu.

The telencephalic allocortex develops protein inclusions before the neocortex in 
many age-related proteinopathies. One major defense mechanism against
proteinopathic stress is the heat shock protein (Hsp) network. We therefore
contrasted Hsp defenses in stressed primary neocortical and allocortical cells.
Neocortical neurons were more resistant to the proteasome inhibitor MG132 than
neurons from 3 allocortical subregions: entorhinal cortex, piriform cortex, and
hippocampus. However, allocortical neurons exhibited higher MG132-induced
increases in Hsp70 and heat shock cognate 70 (Hsc70). MG132-treated allocortical 
neurons also exhibited greater levels of protein ubiquitination. Inhibition of
Hsp70/Hsc70 activity synergistically exacerbated MG132 toxicity in allocortical
neurons more than neocortical neurons, suggesting that the allocortex is more
reliant on these Hsp defenses. In contrast, astrocytes harvested from the
neocortex or allocortex did not differ in their response to Hsp70/Hsc70
inhibition. Consistent with the idea that chaperones are maximally engaged in
allocortical neurons, an increase in Hsp70/Hsc70 activity was protective only in 
neocortical neurons. Finally, the levels of select Hsps were altered in the
neocortex and allocortex in vivo with aging.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4417007 [Available on 2016-05-01]
PMID: 25771395  [PubMed - in process]


352. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Jun 1;286:328-37. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.012. Epub 2015
Mar 11.

Plasmalogen precursor analog treatment reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesias in
parkinsonian monkeys.

Grégoire L(1), Smith T(2), Senanayake V(2), Mochizuki A(3), Miville-Godbout E(4),
Goodenowe D(2), Di Paolo T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Unit, Centre de Recherche du CHU de Québec, Québec, QC, 
Canada. (2)Phenomenome Discoveries Inc., 204-407 Downey Road, Saskatoon, SK,
Canada S7N 4L8. (3)Phenomenome Discoveries Inc., 204-407 Downey Road, Saskatoon, 
SK, Canada S7N 4L8; Department of Molecular Diagnosis, Graduate School of
Medicine, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan. (4)Neuroscience Research Unit, Centre
de Recherche du CHU de Québec, Québec, QC, Canada; Faculty of Pharmacy, Laval
University, Quebec, QC, Canada. (5)Neuroscience Research Unit, Centre de
Recherche du CHU de Québec, Québec, QC, Canada; Faculty of Pharmacy, Laval
University, Quebec, QC, Canada. Electronic address:
therese.dipaolo@crchul.ulaval.ca.

l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID) remain a serious obstacle in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease (PD). The objective of this study was to test a new target
for treatment of dyskinesias, ethanolamine plasmalogens (PlsEtn). PlsEtn play
critical roles in membrane structure mediated functions and as a storage depot of
polyunsaturated fatty acids such as docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, omega-3) known to 
reduce dyskinesias. The motor effect of a daily treatment for 12 days of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) Macaca fascicularis monkeys
with DHA (100mg/kg) was compared to the DHA-PlsEtn precursor PPI-1011 (50mg/kg). 
PPI-1011 and DHA reduced LID while maintaining the antiparkinsonian activity of
l-DOPA, however the PPI-1011 effect was observed at the first behavioral time
point analyzed following drug administration (day 2) whereas the effect of DHA
was not observed until after 10 days of administration. DHA treatment increased
plasma DHA levels 2-3× whereas PPI-1011 had no effect. DHA and PPI-1011 increased
DHA-PlsEtn levels by 1.5-2× while DHA-phosphatidylethanolamine (PtdEtn) levels
remained unaffected. DHA treatment also elevated very long chain fatty acid
containing PtdEtn and reduced non-DHA containing PtdEtn and PlsEtn levels.
PPI-1011 had no effect on these systems. LID scores were inversely correlated
with serum DHA-PlsEtn/total PlsEtn ratios levels in DHA and PPI-1011 treated
monkeys. Hence, the antidyskinetic activity of DHA and PPI-1011 in MPTP monkeys
appears to be associated with the increase of serum DHA-PlsEtn concentrations.
This is the first study reporting an antidyskinetic response to augmentation of
DHA-PlsEtn using a plasmalogen precursor thus providing a novel drug target for
dyskinesias.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25771209  [PubMed - in process]


353. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 May;77:191-203. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.03.005. Epub 2015 Mar
11.

Interrogating the aged striatum: Robust survival of grafted dopamine neurons in
aging rats produces inferior behavioral recovery and evidence of impaired
integration.

Collier TJ(1), O'Malley J(2), Rademacher DJ(3), Stancati JA(1), Sisson KA(1),
Sortwell CE(1), Paumier KL(1), Gebremedhin KG(1), Steece-Collier K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Michigan State University, College of Human Medicine, Department of
Translational Science and Molecular Medicine & The Udall Center of Excellence in 
Parkinson's Disease Research, 333 Bostwick Ave NE, Grand Rapids, MI 49503, USA.
(2)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Division of Child Neurology,
3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA. (3)Lake Forest College, Department
of Psychology, 555 N Sheridan Rd, Lake Forest, IL 60045, USA. (4)Michigan State
University, College of Human Medicine, Department of Translational Science and
Molecular Medicine & The Udall Center of Excellence in Parkinson's Disease
Research, 333 Bostwick Ave NE, Grand Rapids, MI 49503, USA. Electronic address:
kathy.steece-collier@hc.msu.edu.

Advanced age is the primary risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD). In PD
patients and rodent models of PD, advanced age is associated with inferior
symptomatic benefit following intrastriatal grafting of embryonic dopamine (DA)
neurons, a pattern believed to result from decreased survival and reinnervation
provided by grafted neurons in the aged host. To help understand the capacity of 
the aged, parkinsonian striatum to be remodeled with new DA terminals, we used a 
grafting model and examined whether increasing the number of grafted DA neurons
in aged rats would translate to enhanced behavioral recovery. Young (3months),
middle-aged (15months), and aged (22months) parkinsonian rats were grafted with
proportionately increasing numbers of embryonic ventral mesencephalic (VM) cells 
to evaluate whether the limitations of the graft environment in subjects of
advancing age can be offset by increased numbers of transplanted neurons. Despite
robust survival of grafted neurons in aged rats, reinnervation of striatal
neurons remained inferior and amelioration of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) 
was delayed or absent. This study demonstrates that: 1) counter to previous
evidence, under certain conditions the aged striatum can support robust survival 
of grafted DA neurons; and 2) unknown factors associated with the aged striatum
result in inferior integration of graft and host, and continue to present
obstacles to full therapeutic efficacy of DA cell-based therapy in this model of 
aging.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMCID: PMC4402284 [Available on 2016-05-01]
PMID: 25771169  [PubMed - in process]


354. Maturitas. 2015 May;81(1):10-16. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2015.02.007. Epub 2015 
Feb 26.

A comparison of dance interventions in people with Parkinson disease and older
adults.

McNeely ME(1), Duncan RP(2), Earhart GM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Physical Therapy, Washington University School of Medicine in St.
Louis, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA; Department of Neurology, Washington University
School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA. Electronic address:
mcneelym@wusm.wustl.edu. (2)Program in Physical Therapy, Washington University
School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA; Department of
Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO
63108, USA. (3)Program in Physical Therapy, Washington University School of
Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA; Department of Anatomy &
Neurobiology, Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis,
MO 63108, USA; Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine 
in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA.

It is important for our aging population to remain active, particularly those
with chronic diseases, like Parkinson disease (PD), which limit mobility. Recent 
studies in older adults and people with PD suggest dance interventions provide
various motor benefits. The literature for dance in PD is growing, but many
knowledge gaps remain, relative to what is known in older adults. The purpose of 
this review is to: (1) detail results of dance intervention studies in older
adults and in PD, (2) describe limitations of dance research in these
populations, and (3) identify directions for future study. Generally, a wide
variety of dance styles have been investigated in older adults, while a more
limited subset has been evaluated in PD. Measures vary widely across studies and 
a lack of standardized outcomes measures hinders cross-studies comparisons.
Compared to the dance literature in older adults, there is a notable absence of
evidence in the PD literature in outcome domains related to cardiovascular
health, muscle strength, body composition, flexibility, and proprioception. As a 
whole, the dance literature supports substantial and wide-ranging benefits in
both populations, but additional effort should be dedicated to well-designed
comparative studies using standardized outcome measures to identify optimal
treatment programs.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25771040  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


355. J Chem Phys. 2015 Mar 14;142(10):104202. doi: 10.1063/1.4913974.

Shape-independent model (SHIM) approach for studying aggregation by NMR
diffusometry.

Hernandez Santiago AA(1), Buchelnikov AS(2), Rubinson MA(3), Yesylevskyy SO(4),
Parkinson JA(5), Evstigneev MP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Mathematics, Faculty of Chemistry, Autonomous
University of Puebla, Puebla CP 72570, Mexico. (2)Department of Biology and
Chemistry, Belgorod State University, Belgorod 308015, Russia. (3)Department of
Physics, Sevastopol State University, Universitetskaya str.33, Sevastopol 299053,
Ukraine. (4)Department of Physics of Biological Systems, Institute of Physics of 
the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Prospect Nauky 46, Kiev-28 03680,
Ukraine. (5)WestCHEM, Department of Pure and Applied Chemistry, University of
Strathclyde, 295 Cathedral Street, Glasgow G1 1XL, United Kingdom.

NMR diffusometry has been gaining wide popularity in various areas of applied
chemistry for investigating diffusion and complexation processes in solid and
aqueous phases. To date, the application of this method to study aggregation
phenomena proceeding beyond the dimer stage of assembly has been restricted by
the need for a priori knowledge of the aggregates' shape, commonly difficult to
know in practice. We describe here a comprehensive analysis of aggregation
parameter-dependency on the type and shape selected for modeling assembly
processes, and report for the first time a shape-independent model (designated
the SHIM approach), which may be used as an alternative in cases when information
on aggregates' shapes is unavailable. The model can be used for determining
equilibrium aggregation parameters from self-diffusion NMR data including
equilibrium self-association constant and changes in enthalpy, ΔH, and entropy,
ΔS.

PMID: 25770533  [PubMed - in process]


356. Patient Educ Couns. 2015 Jun;98(6):777-82. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2015.02.010. Epub
2015 Feb 25.

Time intervals in diagnosing Parkinson's disease: The patients' views.

Plouvier AO(1), Olde Hartman TC(2), Boots LP(2), Bloem BR(3), van Weel C(4),
Lagro-Janssen AL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud university medical center
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: Annette.Plouvier@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud university medical center
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Neurology and Parkinson Centre
Nijmegen, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud
university medical center Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (4)Department of Primary and
Community Care, Radboud university medical center Nijmegen, The Netherlands;
Australian Primary Health Care Research Institute, Australian National
University, Canberra, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To explore patients' views on their pathway to the diagnosis of
Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: A qualitative study of 52 essays written by patients with PD, using
comparative content analysis.
RESULTS: Patients divide their diagnostic pathway into three time intervals:
recognition of the symptoms; the decision to seek help; and the process of
diagnosing PD. Patients have difficulties recognizing the prodromal symptoms of
PD (their knowledge is based on public figures with advanced PD) and mention
their general practitioners do as well. The decision to seek help is influenced
by the patient's attitude toward health care and by their significant others.
More than half of the patients believe their diagnosis was delayed. However, the 
majority of all patients are satisfied with their diagnostic trajectory.
CONCLUSION: The pathway to diagnosing PD is an iterative process influenced by
patient-, health care provider- and disease-related factors. Despite possible
delay in diagnosis, patients are content with their pathway.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: In order to facilitate earlier diagnosis and timely
therapeutic intervention (in particular with regard to future possibilities for
disease modifying therapy), effort is required to increase the recognition of
prodromal symptoms of PD by patients, their significant others and health care
providers.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25770049  [PubMed - in process]


357. Sleep Med. 2015 Apr;16(4):540-4. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2014.12.010. Epub 2015 Jan 
23.

Parkinson's disease and narcolepsy-like symptoms.

Ylikoski A(1), Martikainen K(2), Sarkanen T(3), Partinen M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Vitalmed Research Center, Helsinki Sleep Clinic, Helsinki, Finland; Hospital
of Laakso, Department of Neurology, Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address:
ari.ylikoski@fimnet.fi. (2)The Finnish Parkinson Association, The Finnish
Parkinson Foundation, Turku, Finland. (3)Vitalmed Research Center, Helsinki Sleep
Clinic, Helsinki, Finland; Central Finland Central Hospital, Department of
Neurology, Jyväskylä, Finland. (4)Vitalmed Research Center, Helsinki Sleep
Clinic, Helsinki, Finland; Institute of Clinical Medicine, Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: Various sleep-related problems, for example, insomnia and symptoms of 
rapid eye movement behavior disorder (RBD), are common in patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD). We studied the prevalence of symptoms of narcolepsy
(NARC), hallucinations, and RBD and their association with other symptoms.
METHODS: Altogether, 1447 randomly selected patients with PD, aged 43-89 years,
participated in a questionnaire study. A structured questionnaire with 207 items 
was based on the Basic Nordic Sleep Questionnaire. Questions on demographics, PD,
RBD, and other issues were included.
RESULTS: The response rate was 59.0%; of these patients, 73% had answered to all 
questions that were used in the analyses (N = 623). The occurrence of suspected
narcolepsy (Ullanlinna Narcolepsy Scale ≥ 14 and Epworth Sleepiness Scale ≥ 11)
was observed in 9.3% of the subjects (PD with NARC), RBD (REM Sleep Behavior
Disorder Screening Questionnaire ≥ 6) in 39.2% of all patients with PD, and in
62.1% of those with PD and NARC. In patients with PD, hallucinations before going
to bed in the evening occurred in 5.8%, hypnagogic hallucinations in 4.0%,
hallucinations during night 8.3%, and hypnopompic hallucinations in 3.2%.
Cataplexy symptoms occurred in 43.1% of subjects with PD and NARC. In a logistic 
regression analysis, PD with NARC was associated with RBD, all types of
hallucinations, daytime sleepiness, fatigue, insomnia, and intense dreaming also 
when adjusted for age, sex, disease duration, and levodopa.
CONCLUSIONS: Narcolepsy-like symptoms may be present in patients with PD.
Symptoms of RBD were associated with symptoms of narcolepsy including symptoms of
cataplexy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25770044  [PubMed - in process]


358. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2015 May;52:178-192. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.03.003.
Epub 2015 Mar 10.

Environmental factors as modulators of neurodegeneration: Insights from
gene-environment interactions in Huntington's disease.

Mo C(1), Hannan AJ(2), Renoir T(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Australia; Department of Neurobiology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. (2)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental
Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia; Department of Anatomy 
and Neuroscience, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia. Electronic
address: anthony.hannan@florey.edu.au. (3)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience
and Mental Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.

Unlike many other neurodegenerative diseases with established gene-environment
interactions, Huntington's disease (HD) is viewed as a disorder governed by
genetics. The cause of the disease is a highly penetrant tandem repeat expansion 
encoding an extended polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin protein. In the year
2000, a pioneering study showed that the disease could be delayed in transgenic
mice by enriched housing conditions. This review describes subsequent human and
preclinical studies identifying environmental modulation of motor, cognitive,
affective and other symptoms found in HD. Alongside the behavioral observations
we also discuss potential mechanisms and the relevance to other neurodegenerative
disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. In mouse models of HD, 
increased sensorimotor and cognitive stimulation can delay or ameliorate various 
endophenotypes. Potential mechanisms include increased trophic support, synaptic 
plasticity, adult neurogenesis, and other forms of experience-dependent cellular 
plasticity. Subsequent clinical investigations support a role for lifetime
activity levels in modulating the onset and progression of HD. Stress can
accelerate memory and olfactory deficits and exacerbate cellular dysfunctions in 
HD mice. In the absence of effective treatments to slow the course of HD,
environmental interventions offer feasible approaches to delay the disease,
however further preclinical and human studies are needed in order to generate
clinical recommendations. Environmental interventions could be combined with
future pharmacological therapies and stimulate the identification of
enviromimetics, drugs which mimic or enhance the beneficial effects of cognitive 
stimulation and physical activity.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25770041  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


359. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Apr 23;593:83-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2015.03.010. Epub 2015
Mar 10.

Neuroprotective role of sphingosine-1-phosphate in L-BMAA treated neuroblastoma
cells (SH-SY5Y).

Muñoz-Sáez E(1), de Munck García E(2), Arahuetes Portero RM(2), Vicente F(3),
Ortiz-López FJ(3), Cantizani J(3), Miguel BG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular-I, Universidad Complutense de 
Madrid, 28040-Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: emmamunoz@ucm.es.
(2)Departamento de Biología Animal-II, Universidad Complutense de Madrid,
28040-Madrid, Spain. (3)Fundación MEDINA, Centro Excelencia Investigación
Medicamentos Innovadores en Andalucía, Parque Tecnológico Ciencias de la Salud,
18016-Armilla-Granada, Spain. (4)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología
Molecular-I, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 28040-Madrid, Spain.

Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is a bioactive lipid which regulates proliferation,
cell migration, survival and differentiation by specific receptors activation. We
studied its effects on L-BMAA treated neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y), an amino
acid that can trigger neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis/Parkinson dementia complex (ALS/PDC). We found that S1P protects from
necrosis and prevents the GSK3 increasing as long as the PI3K/AKT pathway is
active. Moreover, GSK3 inhibition protects against neuronal death caused by
L-BMAA.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25769802  [PubMed - in process]


360. Free Radic Biol Med. 2015 Mar 11. pii: S0891-5849(15)00096-9. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2015.02.030. [Epub ahead of print]

Examining the neuroprotective effects of protocatechuic acid and chrysin on in
vitro and in vivo models of Parkinson disease.

Zhang Z(1), Li G(2), Szeto SS(2), Chong C(3), Quan Q(2), Huang C(3), Cui W(4),
Guo B(5), Wang Y(5), Han Y(4), Michael Siu KW(6), Yuen Lee SM(7), Chu IK(8).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine and Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Taipa, Macao 130012, China;
Institute of New Drug Research, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of
Pharmacodynamics, Constituents of Traditional Chinese Medicine & New Drug
Research, College of Pharmacy, Jinan University, Guangdong, China. (2)Department 
of Chemistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. (3)State Key
Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine and Institute of Chinese
Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Taipa, Macao 130012, China. (4)Department 
of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, Institute of Modern Medicine, The
Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China. (5)Institute of New Drug
Research, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamics, Constituents of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine & New Drug Research, College of Pharmacy, Jinan
University, Guangdong, China. (6)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of Windsor, Windsor, ON, Canada. (7)State Key Laboratory of Quality
Research in Chinese Medicine and Institute of Chinese Medical Sciences,
University of Macau, Taipa, Macao 130012, China. Electronic address:
simonlee@umac.mo. (8)Department of Chemistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong
Kong, China. Electronic address: ivankchu@hku.hk.

Polypharmacology-based strategies using drug combinations with different
mechanisms of action are gaining increasing attention as a novel methodology to
discover potentially innovative medicines for neurodegenerative disorders. We
used this approach to examine the combined neuroprotective effects of two
polyphenols, protocatechuic acid (PCA) and chrysin, identified from the fruits of
Alpinia oxyphylla. Our results demonstrated synergistic neuroprotective effects, 
with chrysin enhancing the protective effects of PCA, resulting in greater cell
viability and decreased lactate dehydrogenase release from
6-hydroxydopamine-treated PC12 cells. Their combination also significantly
attenuated chemically induced dopaminergic neuron loss in both zebrafish and
mice. We examined the molecular mechanisms underlying these collective
cytoprotective effects through proteomics analysis of treated PC12 cells,
resulting in the identification of 12 regulated proteins. Two were further
characterized, leading to the determination that pretreatment with PCA and
chrysin resulted in (i) increased nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2
protein expression and transcriptional activity; (ii) modulation of cellular
redox status with the upregulated expression of hallmark antioxidant enzymes,
including heme oxygenase-1, superoxide dismutase, and catalase; and (iii)
decreased levels of malondialdehyde, a known lipid peroxidation product.
Treatment with PCA and chrysin also inhibited activation of nuclear factor-κB and
expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase. Our findings suggest that natural 
products, when used in combination, can be effective potential therapeutic agents
for treating diseases such as Parkinson disease. A therapy involving both PCA and
chrysin exhibits its enhanced neuroprotective effects through a combination of
cellular mechanisms: antioxidant cytoprotection and anti-inflammation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25769424  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


361. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Mar 12. [Epub ahead of print]

The Unique and Combined Effects of Apathy and Depression on Cognition in
Parkinson's Disease.

Cohen ML(1), Aita S(2), Mari Z(3), Brandt J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 
USA Department of Psychology, Loyola University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
(3)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA. (4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA Department of
Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Apathy and depression are associated with poor cognition in patients 
with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the cognitive signature of each syndrome 
is not well understood. The cognitive consequences of having apathy or
depression, versus apathy and depression, are also unclear.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the unique and combined effects of apathy and 
depression on cognition in PD patients.
METHODS: PD patients were identified from a clinical research database as having 
self-reported apathy (n = 21), depression (n = 11), or both (n = 43). PD patients
without apathy or depression served as the Control group (n = 49). The groups
were of similar age, education, disease severity, age of symptom onset, and
medication status. A multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) compared the
groups on 17 neuropsychological test scores in the domains of attention, motor
and psychomotor speed, construction, language, episodic memory, and executive
functioning.
RESULTS: There was a significant overall effect of group: F(18,276) = 2.12, p =
0.006, &etap2 = 0.12. Univariate analyses and planned contrasts revealed
medium-sized effects distinguishing only the control group and the group with
both apathy and depression (&etap2 = 0.06-0.12) on measures of verbal fluency and
manual, processing, and psychomotor speed.
CONCLUSIONS: PD patients with apathy alone or depression alone did not perform
worse than PD controls on neuropsychological tests. Patients with apathy and
depression performed worse than controls, but only on speed-based measures. This 
suggests that apathy and depression are associated with the same or similar
circuits as those of cognitive and motor speed.

PMID: 25769262  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


362. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2015 Mar-Apr;38(2):55-6. doi: 10.1097/WNF.0000000000000074.

Pet killing as a manifestation of impulse control disorder secondary to
pramipexol.

Micheli F(1), Pellene A, Arcushin D, Calzinari A, Farret MS.

Author information: 
(1)*Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology,
Hospital de Clínicas José de San Martín; †Sanatorio San Gabriel; and ‡Instituto
Frenopático, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Impulse control disorders are frequent in Parkinson disease and are commonly
associated with dopamine agonists intake. Typical manifestations include punding,
hypersexuality, pathological gambling, and other compulsive behaviors. Symptoms
often promptly disappear when dopamine agonists are discontinued, but if the
origin is misinterpreted, symptoms may become a problem. We here report the case 
of a patient with juvenile Parkinson disease treated with 4.5 mg/d of pramipexol,
who developed the need to adopt cats. He adopted almost 50 of them, but after he 
adopted them, he felt the need to kill them. The case became well known, and he
became depressed and isolated. He was admitted to a psychiatric hospital and
thought that he was a psychotic. However, when pramipexol was replaced by
levodopa, the symptoms disappeared. This case illustrates the wide range of
manifestations of impulse control disorders and warrants the inclusion of violent
behaviors among them.

PMID: 25768852  [PubMed - in process]


363. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2015 Mar-Apr;38(2):41-6. doi: 10.1097/WNF.0000000000000073.

A long-term study of istradefylline safety and efficacy in patients with
Parkinson disease.

Kondo T(1), Mizuno Y; Japanese Istradefylline Study Group.

Collaborators: Hisahara S, Baba M, Abe T, Maeda T, Takeda A, Suzuki M, Koike R,
Hirata K, Tamaoka A, Okamoto K, Morita H, Asahina M, Nogawa S, Shimura H, Suzuki 
N, Utsumi H, Shimo Y, Hanajima R, Murata M, Okiyama R, Yokochi M, Nakamura S,
Hasegawa K, Takahashi H, Kawashima N, Ikebe S, Ohashi T, Atsumi T, Hattori T,
Sawada H, Tatsuoka Y, Matsumoto S, Fujimura H, Toda K, Miwa H, Yamamoto M, Nagai 
M, Yuhi T, Tsuboi Y, Kuno S, Mori H, Nagai M, Yoshinaga J, Uekawa K.

Author information: 
(1)*Rehabilitation Hananoie Hospital, Tochigi; and †Juntendo University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Istradefylline is a selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist. We
evaluated the safety and efficacy of istradefylline administered once daily for
52 weeks in Parkinson disease (PD) patients experiencing wearing-off symptoms on 
levodopa therapy.
METHODS: This was a phase 3, multicenter, open-label, long-term study in PD
patients experiencing wearing-off who had previously completed a double-blind
placebo-controlled clinical study of istradefylline in Japan. Istradefylline was 
administered for 52 weeks at a starting dosage of 20 mg/d, with or without dosage
adjustment up to 40 mg/d. Safety was assessed using the incidence of
treatment-emergent adverse events, and efficacy was assessed as the change in the
daily off time.
RESULTS: A total of 308 patients were included in this study. The most frequently
reported treatment-emergent adverse events were nasopharyngitis (24.4%) and
dyskinesia (21.4%). The mean change in the daily off time from day 1 was -0.65
hour in week 2, fluctuating between -0.71 and -0.04 hour until week 52 in
patients who had previously taken placebo in the preceding double-blind study.
The off time reduction from baseline of the double-blind study remained at
similar levels between weeks 2 and 52 in patients who had previously taken
istradefylline 20 and 40 mg/d in the preceding double-blind study.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that istradefylline treatment was well tolerated
and produced a sustained reduction in off time in levodopa-treated PD patients
over a 52-week period.

PMID: 25768849  [PubMed - in process]


364. Front Comput Neurosci. 2015 Feb 26;9:26. doi: 10.3389/fncom.2015.00026.
eCollection 2015.

Phase-dependent modulation as a novel approach for therapeutic brain stimulation.

Azodi-Avval R(1), Gharabaghi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Functional and Restorative Neurosurgery and Division of
Translational Neurosurgery, Department of Neurosurgery, Eberhard Karls University
Tuebingen, Germany ; Neuroprosthetics Research Group, Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, Eberhard Karls University Tuebingen, Germany.

Closed-loop paradigms provide us with the opportunity to optimize stimulation
protocols for perturbation of pathological oscillatory activity in brain-related 
disorders. In this vein, spiking activity of motor cortex neurons and beta
activity of local field potentials in the subthalamic nucleus have both been used
independently of each other as neuronal signals to trigger deep brain stimulation
for alleviating Parkinsonism. These approaches were superior to the standard
continuous high-frequency stimulation protocols used in daily practice. However, 
they achieved their effects by bursts of stimulation that were applied at
high-frequency as well, i.e., independent of the phase information in the
stimulated region. In this context, we propose that, by timing stimulation pulses
relative to the ongoing oscillation, an alternative approach, namely the targeted
perturbation of pathological rhythms, could be obtained. In this modeling study, 
we first captured the underlying dynamics of neuronal oscillations in the human
subthalamic nucleus by phased coupled neuronal oscillators. We then quantified
the nature of the interaction between these coupled oscillators by obtaining a
physiologically informed phase response curve from local field potentials.
Reconstruction of the phase response curve predicted the sensitivity of the phase
oscillator to external stimuli, revealing phase intervals that optimally
maximized the degree of perturbation. We conclude that our specifically timed
intervention based on the coupled oscillator concept will enable us to identify
personalized ways of delivering stimulation pulses in closed-loop paradigms
triggered by the phase of pathological oscillations. This will pave the way for
novel physiological insights and substantial clinical benefits. In addition, this
precisely phased modulation may be capable of modifying the effective
interactions between oscillators in an entirely new manner.

PMCID: PMC4341563
PMID: 25767446  [PubMed]


365. Front Behav Neurosci. 2015 Feb 26;9:42. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00042.
eCollection 2015.

Social behavioral changes in MPTP-treated monkey model of Parkinson's disease.

Durand E(1), Petit O(2), Tremblay L(3), Zimmer C(2), Sgambato-Faure V(3),
Chassain C(4), Laurent M(1), Pereira B(4), Silberberg C(1), Durif F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université d'Auvergne Clermont 1, UFR Médecine, EA 7280 (NPsy-Sydo)
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (2)Département Ecologie, Physiologie et Ethologie,
Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien, UMR 7178, CNRS-UDS Strasbourg, France.
(3)Centre de Neurosciences Cognitives, UMR 5229 CNRS-Université Lyon 1 Bron,
France. (4)CHU Clermont Ferrand, Gabriel Montpied Clermont-Ferrand, France.

Parkinsonian patients experience not only the physical discomfort of motor
disorders but also the considerable psychological distress caused by cognitive
deficits and behavioral disorders. These two factors can result in a disruption
of social relationships during the symptomatic and even the presymptomatic motor 
states of the disease. However, it remains difficult, if not impossible, to
evaluate social relationships in presymptomatic patients. The present study
focused on the evaluation of social relationships within a group of female
long-tailed macaques during presymptomatic and symptomatic motor states induced
by Chronic Low-Dose (CLD) and then Chronic High-Dose (CHD) systemic
administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-l,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP).
Dopaminergic denervation within basal ganglia and cortical areas was evaluated
using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans with (18)F-DOPA
(6-[18F]-fluoro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) radiotracer. Interestingly, social 
behavioral changes could be identified in the presymptomatic motor state before
any motor and/or cognitive impairment occurred. Stronger effects were observed in
subordinate animals compared to dominant animals. From baseline state to
CLD-presymptomatic motor state, the frequency of emitted affiliative and
aggressive behaviors increased. From CLD-presymptomatic to CHD-presymptomatic
motor states, the frequency of the three categories of social behaviors
(aggressive, submissive and affiliative) decreased. At this time, quantitative
data analysis in PET scans highlighted a dopaminergic denervation in the insula
and the posterior caudate nucleus. Finally, the frequency of the three categories
of social behaviors decreased during the stable-symptomatic motor state compared 
to baseline and presymptomatic motor states; this was also associated with motor 
and cognitive disorders and a dopaminergic denervation in all the evaluated
cortical and subcortical structures.

PMCID: PMC4341564
PMID: 25767440  [PubMed]


366. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2015 Mar 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Usefulness of Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping for the Diagnosis of Parkinson 
Disease.

Murakami Y(1), Kakeda S(2), Watanabe K(1), Ueda I(1), Ogasawara A(1), Moriya
J(1), Ide S(1), Futatsuya K(1), Sato T(1), Okada K(1), Uozumi T(1), Tsuji S(1),
Liu T(1), Wang Y(1), Korogi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Radiology (Y.M., S.K., K.W., I.U., A.O., J.M., S.I.,
K.F., T.S., Y.K.) and Neurology (K.O., T.U., S.T.), University of Occupational
and Environmental Health, School of Medicine, Kitakyushu, Japan; and Departments 
of Biomedical Engineering and Radiology (T.L., Y.W.), Cornell University, New
York, New York. (2)From the Departments of Radiology (Y.M., S.K., K.W., I.U.,
A.O., J.M., S.I., K.F., T.S., Y.K.) and Neurology (K.O., T.U., S.T.), University 
of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Medicine, Kitakyushu, Japan; 
and Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Radiology (T.L., Y.W.), Cornell
University, New York, New York. kakeda@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Quantitative susceptibility mapping allows overcoming
several nonlocal restrictions of susceptibility-weighted and phase imaging and
enables quantification of magnetic susceptibility. We compared the diagnostic
accuracy of quantitative susceptibility mapping and R2* (1/T2*) mapping to
discriminate between patients with Parkinson disease and controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For 21 patients with Parkinson disease and 21 age- and
sex-matched controls, 2 radiologists measured the quantitative susceptibility
mapping values and R2* values in 6 brain structures (the thalamus, putamen,
caudate nucleus, pallidum, substantia nigra, and red nucleus).
RESULTS: The quantitative susceptibility mapping values and R2* values of the
substantia nigra were significantly higher in patients with Parkinson disease (P 
< .01); measurements in other brain regions did not differ significantly between 
patients and controls. For the discrimination of patients with Parkinson disease 
from controls, receiver operating characteristic analysis suggested that the
optimal cutoff values for the substantia nigra, based on the Youden Index, were
>0.210 for quantitative susceptibility mapping and >28.8 for R2*. The
sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of quantitative susceptibility mapping
were 90% (19 of 21), 86% (18 of 21), and 88% (37 of 42), respectively; for R2*
mapping, they were 81% (17 of 21), 52% (11 of 21), and 67% (28 of 42). Pair-wise 
comparisons showed that the areas under the receiver operating characteristic
curves were significantly larger for quantitative susceptibility mapping than for
R2* mapping (0.91 versus 0.69, P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative susceptibility mapping showed higher diagnostic
performance than R2* mapping for the discrimination between patients with
Parkinson disease and controls.

© 2015 American Society of Neuroradiology.

PMID: 25767187  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


367. Ann Neurol. 2015 May;77(5):830-9. doi: 10.1002/ana.24385. Epub 2015 Mar 13.

Risk factors for neurodegeneration in idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep
behavior disorder: A multicenter study.

Postuma RB(1), Iranzo A, Hogl B, Arnulf I, Ferini-Strambi L, Manni R, Miyamoto T,
Oertel W, Dauvilliers Y, Ju YE, Puligheddu M, Sonka K, Pelletier A, Santamaria J,
Frauscher B, Leu-Semenescu S, Zucconi M, Terzaghi M, Miyamoto M, Unger MM,
Carlander B, Fantini ML, Montplaisir JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, McGill University, Montreal General Hospital,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Sleep Medicine Center for Advanced Studies, Sacred
Heart Hospital of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether risk factors for Parkinson disease and dementia with
Lewy bodies increase rate of defined neurodegenerative disease in idiopathic
rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD).
METHODS: Twelve centers administered a detailed questionnaire assessing risk
factors for neurodegenerative synucleinopathy to patients with idiopathic RBD.
Variables included demographics, lifestyle factors, pesticide exposures,
occupation, comorbid conditions, medication use, family history, and
autonomic/motor symptoms. After 4 years of follow-up, patients were assessed for 
dementia or parkinsonism. Disease risk was assessed with Kaplan-Meier analysis,
and epidemiologic variables were compared between convertors and those still
idiopathic using logistic regression.
RESULTS: Of 305 patients, follow-up information was available for 279, of whom 93
(33.3%) developed defined neurodegenerative disease. Disease risk was 25% at 3
years and 41% after 5 years. Patients who converted were older (difference = 4.5 
years, p < 0.001), with similar sex distribution. Neither caffeine, smoking, nor 
alcohol exposure predicted conversion. Although occupation was similar between
groups, those who converted had a lower likelihood of pesticide exposure
(occupational insecticide = 2.3% vs 9.0%). Convertors were more likely to report 
family history of dementia (odds ratio [OR] = 2.09), without significant
differences in Parkinson disease or sleep disorders. Medication exposures and
medical history were similar between groups. Autonomic and motor symptoms were
more common among those who converted. Risk factors for primary dementia and
parkinsonism were generally similar, except for a notably higher clonazepam use
in dementia convertors (OR = 2.6).
INTERPRETATION: Patients with idiopathic RBD are at very high risk of
neurodegenerative synucleinopathy. Risk factor profiles between convertors and
nonconvertors have both important commonalities and differences. Ann Neurol
2015;77:830-839.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25767079  [PubMed - in process]


368. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Mar 10. pii: S0969-9961(15)00064-9. doi:
10.1016/j.nbd.2015.03.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Glia and alpha-synuclein in neurodegeneration: A complex interaction.

Brück D(1), Wenning GK(1), Stefanova N(1), Fellner L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical
University, Innrain 66, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria. (2)Division of Neurobiology,
Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innrain 66, 6020
Innsbruck, Austria. Electronic address: lisa.fellner@i-med.ac.at.

α-Synucleinopathies (ASP) comprise adult-onset, progressive neurodegenerative
disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and
multiple system atrophy (MSA) that are characterized by α-synuclein (AS)
aggregates in neurons or glia. PD and DLB feature neuronal AS-positive inclusions
termed Lewy bodies (LB) whereas glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs, Papp-Lantos
bodies) are recognized as the defining hallmark of MSA. Furthermore, AS-positive 
cytoplasmic aggregates may also be seen in astroglial cells of PD/DLB and MSA
brains. The glial AS-inclusions appear to trigger reduced trophic support
resulting in neuronal loss. Moreover, microgliosis and astrogliosis can be found 
throughout the neurodegenerative brain and both are key players in the initiation
and progression of ASP. In this review, we will highlight AS-dependent
alterations of glial function and their impact on neuronal vulnerability thereby 
providing a detailed summary on the multifaceted role of glia in ASP.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25766679  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


369. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):500-3. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.020. Epub 2015 Feb 28.

Cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of N-acetylcysteine after oral administration 
in Parkinson's disease.

Katz M(1), Won SJ(2), Park Y(3), Orr A(2), Jones DP(3), Swanson RA(2), Glass
GA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Service, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 4150 Clement
Street, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA; Department of Neurology, University of
California, San Francisco Medical Center, 675 Nelson Rising Lane, San Francisco, 
CA 94143, USA. Electronic address: maya.katz@ucsfmedctr.org. (2)Neurology
Service, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 4150 Clement Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94121, USA; Department of Neurology, University of California, San 
Francisco Medical Center, 675 Nelson Rising Lane, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(3)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Emory University, 615 Michael Street, Suite 205, Atlanta, GA 30322,
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Depletion of neuronal glutathione may contribute to the
pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). N-acetylcysteine (NAC) can restore
neuronal glutathione levels, but it has not been established whether NAC can
cross the blood-brain barrier in humans.
METHODS: Twelve patients with PD were given oral NAC twice daily for 2 days.
Three doses were compared: 7 mg/kg, 35 mg/kg, and 70 mg/kg. NAC, cysteine, and
glutathione were measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at baseline and 90 min
after the last dose. Cognitive and motor functions were assessed pre- and
post-NAC administration using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and the
Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale part III motor subscore (UPDRS-III).
RESULTS: Oral NAC produced a dose-dependent increase in CSF NAC concentrations
(p < 0.001), with the highest dose producing a CSF concentration of
9.26 ± 1.62 μM. There were no significant adverse events. NAC had no acute effect
on motor or cognitive function.
CONCLUSION: Orally administered NAC produces biologically relevant CSF NAC
concentrations at doses that are well tolerated. The findings support the
feasibility of NAC as a potential disease-modifying therapy for PD.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25765302  [PubMed - in process]


370. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Mar 13. doi: 10.1111/ane.12397. [Epub ahead of print]

The EIF4G1 gene and Parkinson's disease.

Deng H(1), Wu Y, Jankovic J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Medicine and Department of Neurology, the Third
Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China.

Variants in the EIF4G1 gene have been recently identified to be responsible for
autosomal dominant PD (PARK18), but its role in the PD-related neurodegeneration 
is unclear. Several EIF4G1 mutation/variants were found to be associated with PD,
and functional studies have suggested that these variants may impair the ability 
of cells to rapidly and dynamically respond to stress, thus probably
participating in the development of PD, and these indicated that EIF4G1 variants 
may play an important role in pathogenicity of PD, although the frequency is low.
Further studies involving large sample size of patients with PD from diverse
populations, as well as studies of EIF4G1 expression and in scaffold function,
are warranted.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25765080  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


371. J Neurol Surg A Cent Eur Neurosurg. 2015 Mar 12. [Epub ahead of print]

The Role of 3T Magnetic Resonance Imaging for Targeting the Human Subthalamic
Nucleus in Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson Disease.

Longhi M(1), Ricciardi G(2), Tommasi G(3), Nicolato A(1), Foroni R(1), Bertolasi 
L(3), Beltramello A(2), Moretto G(3), Tinazzi M(3), Gerosa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata di
Verona, Verona, Italy. (2)Department of Neuroradiology, Azienda Ospedaliera
Universitaria Integrata di Verona, Verona, Italy. (3)Department of Neurology,
Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata di Verona, Verona, Italy.

Background Chronic stimulation of the human subthalamic nucleus (STN) is
gradually becoming accepted as a long-term therapeutic option for patients with
advanced Parkinson disease (PD).3Tesla (T) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
improves contrast resolution in basal ganglia nuclei containing high levels of
iron, because of magnetic susceptibility effects that increase significantly as
the magnetic field gets higher. This phenomenon can be used for better
visualization of the STN and may reduce the time necessary for detailed
microrecording (MER) mapping, increasing surgery efficacy and lowering morbidity.
Objective The objective of this retrospective study is to analyze a population of
20 deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrode implanted patients with PD divided into
two groups in which different targeting methods were used. Methods Mean age was
56 years (range 37 to 69 years). Mean disease duration was 11.6 years. Mean
follow-up was 12 months (range 6 to 36 months). Patients were divided into two
groups: Group A contained 6 patients who underwent STN targeting using 1T
stereotactic (T1w + T2w) MRI plus STN indirect atlas derived targeting. Group B
consisted of 14 patients who underwent STN targeting using 3T nonstereotactic
(T2w) MRI fused with 1T T1w stereotactic MRI and STN direct targeting. For
statistical analysis, we compared (five different parameters in both (matched)
groups: Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS) score reduction
(medication off before surgery against stimulation on/medication off after
surgery), postoperative drug reduction, duration of surgery, the "central
preoperative track" chosen as final implantation track during surgery, and
correspondence between the targeted STN and the intraoperative neurophysiologic
data. Results Mean UPDRS III score reduction (medication off/stimulation on
versus preoperative medication off) was 69% in Group A and 74% in Group B
(p = 0.015, log-rank test) respectively. Postoperatively, antiparkinsonian
treatment was reduced by 66% in Group A and 75% in Group B (p = 0.006, log-rank
test). The preoperative "central" track (which corresponds to ideal STN
targeting) proved to be the most clinically effective in 2/12 leads for Group A
versus 21/28 for Group B (p < 0.001).Neurophysiologic data confirmed these
results; the hypothetical target was confirmed by MER data in 76% of tracks in
Group A, and in 75% of tracks in Group B (p < 0.001, univariate and multivariate 
analysis). Conclusion 3T MRI appears to be a useful tool in STN-DBS preoperative 
targeting. Neurophysiologic testing remains fundamental to determine lead
deepness (and prevent clinical side effects.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

PMID: 25764475  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


372. Plant Signal Behav. 2014;9(4):e28275. doi: 10.4161/psb.28275.

The role of L-DOPA in plants.

Soares AR(1), Marchiosi R, Siqueira-Soares Rde C, Barbosa de Lima R, Dantas dos
Santos W, Ferrarese-Filho O.

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Plant Biochemistry; Department of Biochemistry; State
University of Maringá; Maringá, PR, Brazil.

Since higher plants regularly release organic compounds into the environment,
their decay products are often added to the soil matrix and a few have been
reported as agents of plant-plant interactions. These compounds, active against
higher plants, typically suppress seed germination, cause injury to root growth
and other meristems, and inhibit seedling growth. Mucuna pruriens is an example
of a successful cover crop with several highly active secondary chemical agents
that are produced by its seeds, leaves and roots. The main phytotoxic compound
encountered is the non-protein amino acid L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), 
which is used in treating the symptoms of Parkinson disease. In plants, L-DOPA is
a precursor of many alkaloids, catecholamines, and melanin and is released from
Mucuna into soils, inhibiting the growth of nearby plant species. This review
summarizes knowledge regarding L-DOPA in plants, providing a brief overview about
its metabolic actions.

PMID: 25764424  [PubMed - in process]


373. Front Neuroanat. 2015 Feb 13;9:10. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00010. eCollection
2015.

GDNF-based therapies, GDNF-producing interneurons, and trophic support of the
dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. Implications for Parkinson's disease.

d'Anglemont de Tassigny X(1), Pascual A(1), López-Barneo J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS), Hospital Universitario Virgen del 
Rocío/CSIC/Universidad de Sevilla Seville, Spain. (2)Instituto de Biomedicina de 
Sevilla (IBiS), Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío/CSIC/Universidad de
Sevilla Seville, Spain ; Departamento de Fisiología Médica y Biofísica, Facultad 
de Medicina, Universidad de Sevilla Seville, Spain ; Centro de Investigación
Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED) Madrid, Spain.

The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a well-established
trophic agent for dopaminergic (DA) neurons in vitro and in vivo. GDNF is
necessary for maintenance of neuronal morphological and neurochemical phenotype
and protects DA neurons from toxic damage. Numerous studies on animal models of
Parkinson's disease (PD) have reported beneficial effects of GDNF on
nigrostriatal DA neuron survival. However, translation of these observations to
the clinical setting has been hampered so far by side effects associated with the
chronic continuous intra-striatal infusion of recombinant GDNF. In addition,
double blind and placebo-controlled clinical trials have not reported any
clinically relevant effect of GDNF on PD patients. In the past few years,
experiments with conditional Gdnf knockout mice have suggested that GDNF is
necessary for maintenance of DA neurons in adulthood. In parallel, new
methodologies for exogenous GDNF delivery have been developed. Recently, it has
been shown that a small population of scattered, electrically interconnected,
parvalbumin positive (PV+) GABAergic interneurons is responsible for most of the 
GDNF produced in the rodent striatum. In addition, cholinergic striatal
interneurons appear to be also involved in the modulation of striatal GDNF. In
this review, we summarize current knowledge on brain GDNF delivery, homeostasis, 
and its effects on nigrostriatal DA neurons. Special attention is paid to the
therapeutic potential of endogenous GDNF stimulation in PD.

PMCID: PMC4327623
PMID: 25762899  [PubMed]


374. Neurology. 2015 Apr 7;84(14):1454-64. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001450. Epub
2015 Mar 11.

Clinical prodromes of neurodegeneration in Anderson-Fabry disease.

Löhle M(1), Hughes D(2), Milligan A(2), Richfield L(2), Reichmann H(2), Mehta
A(2), Schapira AH(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology (M.L.,
A.H.V.S.), and the Lysosomal Storage Disorders Unit, Department of Haematology
(D.H., A.M., L.R., A.M.), University College London, UK; and the Department of
Neurology (M.L., H.R.), Dresden University of Technology, Germany.
matthias.loehle@uniklinikum-dresden.de. (2)From the Department of Clinical
Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology (M.L., A.H.V.S.), and the Lysosomal Storage 
Disorders Unit, Department of Haematology (D.H., A.M., L.R., A.M.), University
College London, UK; and the Department of Neurology (M.L., H.R.), Dresden
University of Technology, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of prodromal clinical features of
neurodegeneration in patients with Anderson-Fabry disease (AFD) in comparison to 
age-matched controls.
METHODS: This is a single-center, prospective, cross-sectional study in 167
participants (60 heterozygous females and 50 hemizygous males with genetically
confirmed AFD, 57 age-matched controls) using a clinical screening program
consisting of structured interview, quantitative tests of motor function, and
assessments of cognition, depression, olfaction, orthostatic intolerance, pain,
REM sleep behavior disorder, and daytime sleepiness.
RESULTS: In comparison to age-matched controls (mean age 48.3 years), patients
with AFD (mean age 49.0 years) showed slower gait and transfer speed, poorer fine
manual dexterity, and lower hand speed, which was independent of focal symptoms
due to cerebrovascular disease. Patients with AFD were more severely affected by 
depression, pain, and daytime sleepiness and had a lower quality of life. These
motor and nonmotor manifestations significantly correlated with clinical disease 
severity. However, patients with AFD did not reveal extrapyramidal motor features
or signs of significant cognitive impairment, hyposmia, orthostatic intolerance, 
or REM sleep behavior disorder, which commonly precede later neurodegenerative
disease. In our cohort, there were no differences in neurologic manifestations of
AFD between heterozygous females and hemizygous males.
CONCLUSIONS: Aside from cerebrovascular manifestations and small fiber
neuropathy, AFD results in a distinct neurologic phenotype comprising poorer
motor performance and specific nonmotor features. In contrast to functional loss 
of glucocerebrosidase in Gaucher disease, α-galactosidase deficiency in AFD is
not associated with a typical cluster of clinical features prodromal for
neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson disease.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4390387
PMID: 25762709  [PubMed - in process]


375. Hum Nat. 2015 Mar;26(1):28-43. doi: 10.1007/s12110-015-9225-8.

Laughter's Influence on the Intimacy of Self-Disclosure.

Gray AW(1), Parkinson B, Dunbar RI.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, 17 Queen
Square, London, WC1N 3AR, UK, alan.gray@ucl.ac.uk.

If laughter functions to build relationships between individuals, as current
theory suggests, laughter should be linked to interpersonal behaviors that have
been shown to be critical to relationship development. Given the importance of
disclosing behaviors in facilitating the development of intense social bonds, it 
is possible that the act of laughing may temporarily influence the laugher's
willingness to disclose personal information. We tested this hypothesis
experimentally by comparing the characteristics of self-disclosing statements
produced by those who had previously watched one of three video clips that
differed in the extent to which they elicited laughter and positive affect. The
results show that disclosure intimacy is significantly higher after laughter than
in the control condition, suggesting that this effect may be due, at least in
part, to laughter itself and not simply to a change in positive affect. However, 
the disclosure intimacy effect was only found for observers' ratings of
participants' disclosures and was absent in the participants' own ratings. We
suggest that laughter increases people's willingness to disclose, but that they
may not necessarily be aware that it is doing so.

PMID: 25762120  [PubMed - in process]


376. Neuroscientist. 2015 Mar 11. pii: 1073858415574600. [Epub ahead of print]

The Parkinson Disease Mitochondrial Hypothesis: Where Are We at?

Franco-Iborra S(1), Vila M(2), Perier C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Vall d'Hebron Research Institute-CIBERNED, Barcelona, Spain. (2)Vall d'Hebron 
Research Institute-CIBERNED, Barcelona, Spain Catalan Institution for Research
and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (3)Vall 
d'Hebron Research Institute-CIBERNED, Barcelona, Spain celine.perier@vhir.org.

Parkinson's disease is a common, adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder whose
pathogenesis is still under intense investigation. Substantial evidence from
postmortem human brain tissue, genetic- and toxin-induced animal and cellular
models indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role in the
pathophysiology of the disease. This review discusses our current understanding
of Parkinson's disease-related mitochondrial dysfunction, including bioenergetic 
defects, mitochondrial DNA alterations, altered mitochondrial dynamics,
activation of mitochondrial-dependent programmed cell death, and perturbations in
mitochondrial tethering to the endoplasmic reticulum. Whether a primary or
secondary event, mitochondrial dysfunction holds promise as a potential
therapeutic target to halt the progression of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's
disease.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25761946  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


377. Eur J Neurosci. 2015 May;41(9):1113-25. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12872. Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Evidence for a common biological pathway linking three Parkinson's
disease-causing genes: parkin, PINK1 and DJ-1.

van der Merwe C(1), Jalali Sefid Dashti Z, Christoffels A, Loos B, Bardien S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Biology & Human Genetics, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Stellenbosch University, PO Box 19063, Cape Town, 7505, South Africa.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in 
the midbrain. Autosomal recessive, early-onset cases of PD are predominantly
caused by mutations in the parkin, PINK1 and DJ-1 genes. Animal and cellular
models have verified a direct link between parkin and PINK1, whereby PINK1
phosphorylates and activates parkin at the outer mitochondrial membrane,
resulting in removal of dysfunctional mitochondria via mitophagy. Despite the
overwhelming evidence for this interaction, few studies have been able to
identify a link for DJ-1 with parkin or PINK1. The aim of this review is to
summarise the functions of these three proteins, and to analyse the existing
evidence for direct and indirect interactions between them. DJ-1 is able to
rescue the phenotype of PINK1-knockout Drosophila models, but not of
parkin-knockouts, suggesting that DJ-1 may act in a parallel pathway to that of
the PINK1/parkin pathway. To further elucidate a commonality between these three 
proteins, bioinformatics analysis established that Miro (RHOT1) interacts with
parkin and PINK1, and HSPA4 interacts with all three proteins. Furthermore, 30
transcription factors were found to be common amongst all three proteins, with
many of them being involved in transcriptional regulation. Interestingly,
expression of these proteins and their associated transcription factors are found
to be significantly down-regulated in PD patients compared to healthy controls.
In summary, this review provides insight into common pathways linking three
PD-causing genes and highlights some key questions, the answers to which may
provide critical insight into the disease process.

© 2015 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25761903  [PubMed - in process]


378. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Mar 9;16(3):5400-19. doi: 10.3390/ijms16035400.

A heme oxygenase-1 transducer model of degenerative and developmental brain
disorders.

Schipper HM(1,)(2), Song W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bloomfield Centre for Research in Aging, Lady Davis Institute for Medical
Research, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, QC H3T1E2, Canada.
hyman.schipper@mcgill.ca. (2)Department of Neurology & Neurosurgery and
Department of Medicine, McGill University and Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, 
QC H3T1E2, Canada. hyman.schipper@mcgill.ca. (3)Bloomfield Centre for Research in
Aging, Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Jewish General Hospital,
Montreal, QC H3T1E2, Canada. wsong39@yahoo.com.

Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a 32 kDa protein which catalyzes the breakdown of heme
to free iron, carbon monoxide and biliverdin. The Hmox1 promoter contains
numerous consensus sequences that render the gene exquisitely sensitive to
induction by diverse pro-oxidant and inflammatory stimuli. In "stressed"
astroglia, HO-1 hyperactivity promotes mitochondrial iron sequestration and
macroautophagy and may thereby contribute to the pathological iron deposition and
bioenergetic failure documented in Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease and
certain neurodevelopmental conditions. Glial HO-1 expression may also impact
neuroplasticity and cell survival by modulating brain sterol metabolism and the
proteasomal degradation of neurotoxic proteins. The glial HO-1 response may
represent a pivotal transducer of noxious environmental and endogenous stressors 
into patterns of neural damage and repair characteristic of many human
degenerative and developmental CNS disorders.

PMID: 25761244  [PubMed - in process]


379. Lakartidningen. 2014 Oct 15-21;111(42):1816-7.

[Time to take responsibility for Parkinson care in Sweden].

[Article in Swedish]

Lökk J, Lindvall S.

PMID: 25759896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Balkan Med J. 2015 Jan;32(1):127-8. doi: 10.5152/balkanmedj.2015.15008. Epub 2015
Jan 1.

Re-emergent Tongue Tremor as the Presenting Symptom of Parkinson's Disease.

Delil Ş(1), Bölükbaşı F(1), Yeni N(1), Kızıltan G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Cerrahpaşa Faculty of Medicine, İstanbul University, 
İstanbul, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: The most common symptom of Parkinson's disease is the unilateral,
typically resting tremor in body parts, most commonly in the upper extremities.
However, this finding can spread to the other parts of the body like lips, chin, 
jaw and tongue during the course of the disease. Nevertheless, we have not come
across any Parkinson's disease case presenting with tongue tremor in the
literature.
CASE REPORT: Here, we present a 58 year-old man with Parkinson's disease
presenting with tongue tremor, his striking response to the levodopa test and his
follow-up data.
CONCLUSION: The topography of motor symptoms at onset in Parkinson's disease is
presumably determined by the severity of the Lewy body neuronal degeneration in
distinct parts of the substantia nigra. Therefore, patterns of somatic symptom
progression in Parkinson's disease indicate that involvement of the cranial
structures always follows the development of symptoms in the extremities.
However, in our case, cranial structures seem to precede the involvement of
extremity-related areas.

PMCID: PMC4342128
PMID: 25759787  [PubMed]


381. Biomicrofluidics. 2015 Feb 20;9(1):014124. doi: 10.1063/1.4913367. eCollection
2015.

Surface protein gradients generated in sealed microchannels using spatially
varying helium microplasma.

Wettstein P(1), Priest C(2), Al-Bataineh SA(1), Short RD(1), Bryant PM(3),
Bradley JW(3), Low SP(1), Parkinson L(2), Szili EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mawson Institute, University of South Australia , Mawson Lakes, South
Australia 5095, Australia. (2)Ian Wark Research Institute, University of South
Australia , Mawson Lakes, South Australia 5095, Australia. (3)Department of
Electrical Engineering and Electronics, The University of Liverpool , Brownlow
Hill, Liverpool L69 3GJ, United Kingdom.

Spatially varied surface treatment of a fluorescently labeled Bovine Serum
Albumin (BSA) protein, on the walls of a closed (sealed) microchannel is achieved
via a well-defined gradient in plasma intensity. The microchips comprised a
microchannel positioned in-between two microelectrodes (embedded in the chip)
with a variable electrode separation along the length of the channel. The channel
and electrodes were 50 μm and 100 μm wide, respectively, 50 μm deep, and adjacent
to the channel for a length of 18 mm. The electrode separation distance was
varied linearly from 50 μm at one end of the channel to a maximum distance of
150, 300, 500, or 1000 μm to generate a gradient in helium plasma intensity.
Plasma ignition was achieved at a helium flow rate of 2.5 ml/min, 8.5 kVpk-pk,
and 10 kHz. It is shown that the plasma intensity decreases with increasing
electrode separation and is directly related to the residual amount of BSA left
after the treatment. The plasma intensity and surface protein gradient, for the
different electrode gradients studied, collapse onto master curves when plotted
against electrode separation. This precise spatial control is expected to enable 
the surface protein gradient to be tuned for a range of applications, including
high-throughput screening and cell-biomolecule-biomaterial interactions.

PMCID: PMC4336250 [Available on 2016-02-20]
PMID: 25759757  [PubMed]


382. Case Rep Neurol. 2014 Nov 7;6(3):256-8. doi: 10.1159/000369059.

A patient-invented maneuver to alleviate freezing of gait using a foot loop band.

Okuma Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Juntendo University Shizuoka Hospital, Izunokuni,
Japan.

Freezing of gait (FOG) is a disabling gait disorder in parkinsonian patients
characterized by the inability to initiate or continue locomotion. I herein
present a 65-year-old man with Parkinson's disease who invented a unique method
(foot loop band) to alleviate FOG, which has not been previously described in the
literature. The mechanisms to alleviate FOG include not only facilitating
mechanical weight shift, but also restoring internal cueing and driving motor
commands for gait initiation. This patient-invented maneuver may be recommended
for patients having intractable FOG, because it is portable, cheap and safe.

PMCID: PMC4337170
PMID: 25759657  [PubMed]


383. EMBO Mol Med. 2015 Mar 9;7(5):510-25. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201404610.

Combined Nurr1 and Foxa2 roles in the therapy of Parkinson's disease.

Oh SM(1), Chang MY(2), Song JJ(1), Rhee YH(1), Joe EH(3), Lee HS(4), Yi SH(5),
Lee SH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, Hanyang
University, Seoul, Korea Hanyang Biomedical Research Institute, Hanyang
University, Seoul, Korea Graduate School of Biomedical Science and Engineering,
Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea. (2)Hanyang Biomedical Research Institute,
Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Phamacology, Ajou University
School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea. (4)Department of Applied Bioscience, College of
Life Science, CHA University, Seoul, Korea. (5)Hanyang Biomedical Research
Institute, Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea sanghooni@hanmail.net
leesh@hanyang.ac.kr. (6)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College
of Medicine, Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea Hanyang Biomedical Research
Institute, Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea Graduate School of Biomedical Science
and Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea sanghooni@hanmail.net
leesh@hanyang.ac.kr.

Use of the physiological mechanisms promoting midbrain DA (mDA) neuron survival
seems an appropriate option for developing treatments for Parkinson's disease
(PD). mDA neurons are specifically marked by expression of the transcription
factors Nurr1 and Foxa2. We show herein that Nurr1 and Foxa2 interact to protect 
mDA neurons against various toxic insults, but their expression is lost during
aging and degenerative processes. In addition to their proposed cell-autonomous
actions in mDA neurons, forced expression of these factors in neighboring glia
synergistically protects degenerating mDA neurons in a paracrine mode. As a
consequence of these bimodal actions, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene 
delivery of Nurr1 and Foxa2 in a PD mouse model markedly protected mDA neurons
and motor behaviors associated with nigrostriatal DA neurotransmission. The
effects of the combined gene delivery were dramatic, highly reproducible, and
sustained for at least 1 year, suggesting that expression of these factors is a
promising approach in PD therapy.

© 2015 The Authors. Published under the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license.

PMID: 25759364  [PubMed - in process]


384. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):604-13. doi: 10.1002/mds.26157. Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Paraphilias and paraphilic disorders in Parkinson's disease: A systematic review 
of the literature.

Solla P(1), Bortolato M, Cannas A, Mulas CS, Marrosu F.

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Center, Department of Neurology, Institute of Neurology,
University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.

Paraphilias are intense urges or behaviors involving non-normative sexual
interests. The newly approved diagnostic criteria in the Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) have established
that, although paraphilias should not be regarded as inherently pathological,
they ought to be qualified as paraphilic disorders if resulting in distress,
impairment, or harm to the affected individual or others. Recent evidence
documents that both phenomena can emerge as relatively uncommon iatrogenic
consequences in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. To outline the clinical
characteristics of paraphilias and paraphilic disorders in PD patients, we
summarized the available evidence on these phenomena. The review encompasses all 
studies on paraphilias in PD patients identified by a search on the Pubmed and
Scopus online databases through May 2014. Twenty-two case reports on a total of
31 PD patients with paraphilias or paraphilic disorders were identified. These
phenomena were typically associated with dopaminomimetic treatment (with a mean
levodopa-equivalent daily dose of 1,303 ± 823 mg/d) in male patients with motor
complications, young age at PD onset, and long disease duration. Paraphilias were
highly concomitant with impulse-control disorders or dopamine dysregulation
syndrome. Although evidence on paraphilias and paraphilic disorders in PD
patients remains anecdotal, available data point to these phenomena as likely
sequelae of high-dose dopaminomimetic treatment. Accordingly, the intensity of
paraphilic urges is typically attenuated by the reduction of dopaminomimetic
doses, sometimes in association with atypical antipsychotics. Failure to
recognize paraphilic disorders may significantly impair the relational
functioning of the affected PD patients. Practitioners should routinely inquire
about paraphilias during their clinical assessment of PD patients. © 2015
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25759330  [PubMed - in process]


385. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):484-93. doi: 10.1002/mds.26139. Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Zooming in on the small: The plasticity of striatal dendritic spines in
l-DOPA-Induced dyskinesia.

Fieblinger T(1), Cenci MA.

Author information: 
(1)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology Unit, Dept. Exp. Medical Science, Lund
University, BMC F11, 221 84 Lund, Sweden.

The spiny dendrites of striatal projection neurons integrate synaptic inputs of
different origins to regulate movement. It has long been known that these
dendrites lose spines and display atrophic features in Parkinson's disease (PD), 
but the significance of these morphological changes has remained unknown. Some
recent studies reveal a remarkable structural plasticity of striatal spines in
parkinsonian rodents treated with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), and they
demonstrate an association between this plasticity and the development of
dyskinesia. These studies used different approaches and animal models, which
possibly explains why they emphasize different plastic changes as being most
closely linked to dyskinesia (such as a growth of new spines in neurons of the
indirect pathway, or a loss of spines in neurons of the direct pathway, or the
appearance of spines with aberrant synaptic features). Clearly, further
investigations are required to reconcile these intriguing findings and integrate 
them in a coherent pathophysiological model. Nevertheless, these studies may mark
the beginning of a new era for dyskinesia research. In addition to addressing
neurochemical and molecular events that trigger involuntary movements, there is a
need to better understand the long-lasting structural reorganization of cells and
circuits that maintain the brain in a "dyskinesia-prone" state. This may lead to 
the identification of new efficacious approaches to prevent the complications of 
dopaminergic therapies in PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25759263  [PubMed - in process]


386. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 11. doi: 10.1002/mds.26128. [Epub ahead of print]

Cerebral perfusion and cortical thickness indicate cortical involvement in mild
Parkinson's disease.

Madhyastha TM(1), Askren MK, Boord P, Zhang J, Leverenz JB, Grabowski TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

Cortical dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD) may be caused by disruption to
ascending systems or by intrinsic cortical neuropathology. We introduce and
conduct a joint analysis of metabolism and atrophy capable of identifying whether
metabolic disruption occurs in mild PD without cortical atrophy, to determine the
extent and spatial pattern of cortical involvement in mild PD. The design was
observational, studying 23 cognitively normal participants with mild PD (mean
Hoehn & Yahr stage 2) and 21 healthy controls. Cortical thickness (obtained from 
analysis of structural magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] with FreeSurfer) and
cerebral perfusion measures (obtained from arterial spin labeling [ASL]) analyzed
independently and then together in a joint multiple factorial analysis to
identify spatial patterns of perfusion and cortical thickness. We identify a
pattern of changes in perfusion and cortical thickness characterized by symmetric
parietal cortical thinning and reduced precuneus perfusion, with relative
preservation of thickness and perfusion in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC),
right prefrontal gyrus, and medial frontal gyrus. The expression of this pattern 
is correlated with motor system symptoms and speed of processing. A spatial
pattern of joint parietal cortical thinning and disproportionate reduction in
perfusion occurs in our nondemented PD sample. We found no PD-related components 
of reduced perfusion without cortical thinning. This suggests that PD affects the
cortex itself, even when symptoms are relatively mild. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25759166  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


387. J Drug Target. 2015 Mar 11:1-14. [Epub ahead of print]

Nanotechnology-mediated nose to brain drug delivery for Parkinson's disease: a
mini review.

Kulkarni AD(1), Vanjari YH, Sancheti KH, Belgamwar VS, Surana SJ, Pardeshi CV.

Author information: 
(1)Industrial Pharmacy Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutics, R. C. Patel
Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research , Shirpur, Maharashtra , India
.

Nose to brain delivery of neurotherapeutics have been tried by several
researchers to explore the virtues of this route viz. circumvention of BBB,
avoidance of hepatic metabolism, practicality, safety, ease of administration and
non-invasiveness. Nanoparticle (NP) therapeutics is an emerging modality for the 
treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) as it offers targeted delivery and enhances
the therapeutic efficacy and/or bioavailability of neurotherapeutics. This review
presents a concise incursion into the nanomedicines suitable for PD therapy
delivered via naso-brain transport. Clinical signs of PD, its pathophysiology,
specific genetic determinants, diagnosis and therapy involved have been hashed
out. Properties of brain-targeting NPs, transport efficacy and various
nanocarriers developed so far also been furnished. In our opinion,
nanotechnology-enabled naso-brain drug delivery is an excellent means of
delivering neurotherapeutics and is a promising avenue for researchers to develop
new formulations for the effective management of PD.

PMID: 25758751  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


388. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 11. doi: 10.1002/mds.26182. [Epub ahead of print]

Substantia nigra neuromelanin-MR imaging differentiates essential tremor from
Parkinson's disease.

Reimão S(1), Pita Lobo P, Neutel D, Guedes LC, Coelho M, Rosa MM, Azevedo P,
Ferreira J, Abreu D, Gonçalves N, Nunes RG, Campos J, Ferreira JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Imaging Department, Hospital de Santa Maria, Centro Hospitalar
Lisboa Norte, Portugal; Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Instituto de Medicina
Molecular, Faculty of Medicine, University of Lisbon, Portugal.

Essential tremor (ET) is a very common movement disorder that has no diagnostic
markers. Differentiation with Parkinson's disease (PD) can be clinically
challenging in some cases, with a high rate of misdiagnosis. Magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) studies have been able to identify neuromelanin changes in the
substantia nigra (SN) of PD patients, but they have thus far not been
investigated in ET. In this study, we aimed to characterize neuromelanin-MR
signal changes in ET and evaluate its diagnostic accuracy in the differential
diagnosis with PD. The inclusion criteria were patients with ET and untreated "de
novo" PD patients; in addition, age-matched controls were enrolled. These were
studied with a high-resolution T1-weighted MRI sequence at 3.0 Tesla to visualize
neuromelanin. The primary outcomes were the area and width of the SN region with 
high signal. A total of 15 ET patients and 12 "de novo" PD patients were
evaluated. The area and width of the T1 high signal in the SN region were
markedly decreased in the PD group compared with the ET and age-matched controls,
and a greater decrease was seen in the ventrolateral segment. The neuromelanin
measures in the ET group, although slightly lower, were not significantly
different from the healthy control group. We obtained a sensitivity of 66.7% and 
a specificity of 93.3% in discriminating ET from early-stage PD.
Neuromelanin-sensitive MRI techniques can discriminate ET from early-stage
tremor-dominant PD and can be a useful clinical tool in the evaluation of tremor 
disorders. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25758364  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


389. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 11. doi: 10.1002/mds.26176. [Epub ahead of print]

Patterns of linkage disequilibrium at PARK16 may explain variances in genetic
association studies.

Li H(1), Teo YY, Tan EK.

Author information: 
(1)Health Services Research and Biostatistics Unit, Division of Research,
Singapore General Hospital.

Reproducing genomewide association studies findings in different populations is
challenging, because the reproducibility fundamentally relies on the similar
patterns of linkage disequilibrium between the unknown causal variants and the
genotyped single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The PARK16 locus was reported
to alter the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) in genomewide association studies
in Japanese and Caucasians. We evaluated the regional linkage disequilibrium
pattern at PARK16 locus in Caucasians, Japanese, and Chinese from HapMap and
Chinese, Malays, and Indians from the Singapore Genome Variation Project, using
the traditional heatmaps and targeted analysis of PARK16 gene via Monte Carlo
simulation through varLD scores of these ethnic groups. One hundred SNPs in
Caucasians, 95 SNPs in Chinese, 78 SNPs in Japanese from HapMap, 86 SNPs in
Chinese, 99 SNPs in Indians, and 97 SNPs in Malays from the Singapore Genome
Variation Project were included. Our targeted analysis showed that the linkage
disequilibrium pattern of SNPs close to rs947211 was similar in Caucasians and
Asians, including Chinese, Japanese, and Malay (all P > 0.0001), whereas
different linkage disequilibrium patterns around rs823128, rs823156, and rs708730
were found between Caucasians and these Asian groups (all P < 0.0001). Our study 
suggests a higher chance to detect the association between rs947211 and PD in
Chinese, Malay, and other Caucasian groups because of the similar linkage
disequilibrium pattern around rs947211. The associations between
rs823128/rs823156/rs708730 and PD are more likely to be replicated in Chinese and
Malay populations. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25758099  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


390. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Mar 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroimaging of Freezing of Gait.

Fasano A(1), Herman T(2), Tessitore A(3), Strafella AP(1), Bohnen NI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Centre and the Edmond J. Safra
Program in Parkinson's Disease, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health
Network, Toronto, ON, Canada. (2)Center for the study of Movement, Cognition and 
Mobility, Department of Neurology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv,
Israel. (3)Department of Medical, Surgical, Neurological, Metabolic and Aging
Sciences, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy. (4)Departments of Radiology
and Neurology, University of Michigan, and Neurology Service and GRECC, VAAAHS,
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Functional brain imaging techniques appear ideally suited to explore the
pathophysiology of freezing of gait (FOG). In the last two decades, techniques
based on magnetic resonance or nuclear medicine imaging have found a number of
structural changes and functional disconnections between subcortical and cortical
regions of the locomotor network in patients with FOG. FOG seems to be related in
part to disruptions in the "executive-attention" network along with regional
tissue loss including the premotor area, inferior frontal gyrus, precentral
gyrus, the parietal and occipital areas involved in visuospatial functions of the
right hemisphere. Several subcortical structures have been also involved in the
etiology of FOG, principally the caudate nucleus and the locomotor centers in the
brainstem. Maladaptive neural compensation may present transiently in the
presence of acute conflicting motor, cognitive or emotional stimulus processing, 
thus causing acute network overload and resulting in episodic impairment of
stepping. In this review we will summarize the state of the art of neuroimaging
research for FOG. We will also discuss the limitations of current approaches and 
delineate the next steps of neuroimaging research to unravel the pathophysiology 
of this mysterious motor phenomenon.

PMID: 25757831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


391. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Mar 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of Different Alpha-Synuclein Strains in Synucleinopathies, Similarities with
other Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Melki R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Paris-Saclay Institute of Neuroscience, Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Misfolded protein aggregates are the hallmark of several neurodegenerative
diseases in humans. The main protein constituent of these aggregates and the
regions within the brain that are affected differ from one neurodegenerative
disorder to another. A plethora of reports suggest that distinct diseases have in
common the ability of protein aggregates to spread and amplify within the central
nervous system. This review summarizes briefly what is known about the nature of 
the protein aggregates that are infectious and the reason they are toxic to
cells. The chameleon property of polypeptides which aggregation into distinct
high-molecular weight assemblies is associated to different diseases, in
particular, that of alpha-synuclein which aggregation is the hallmark of distinct
synucleinopathies, is discussed. Finally, strategies targeting the formation and 
propagation of structurally distinct alpha-synuclein assemblies associated to
different synucleinopathies are presented and their therapeutic and diagnostic
potential is discussed.

PMID: 25757830  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


392. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Mar 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Narrative Discourse Cohesion in Early Stage Parkinson's Disease.

Ellis C(1), Crosson B(2), Gonzalez Rothi LJ(3), Okun MS(4), Rosenbek JC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, East Carolina University, 
Greenville, North Carolina, USA. (2)Department of Neurology, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia, USA VA Center for Visual and Neurocognitive Rehabilitation,
Decatur, Georgia, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, University of Florida Center
for Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration, Gainesville, Florida, USA VA Brain
Rehabilitation Research Center, Gainesville, Florida, USA. (4)Department of
Neurology, University of Florida Center for Movement Disorders and
Neurorestoration, Gainesville, Florida, USA Department of Neurosurgery,
University of Florida Center for Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration,
Gainesville, Florida, USA. (5)VA Brain Rehabilitation Research Center,
Gainesville, Florida, USA Department of Communicative Disorders, University of
Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA Department of Speech, Language and Hearing
Sciences, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND: Models of basal ganglia (BG) function suggest that expressive
language deficits will likely and consistently present in BG disease. Disparities
currently exist between the predictions of models of BG function in expressive
language and data from studies of BG disease. Traditional expressive language
assessment methodologies that emphasize measures of language form (word and
sentence productivity) while not carefully considering how language is used, may 
only partially account for these disparities.
OBJECTIVE: To use measures of cohesion to examine the use of cohesive markers in 
narrative discourse.
METHODS: Twelve individuals with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) were
compared to 12 matched neurologically intact controls on measures of discourse
performance. Three discourse samples (typical day, memorable vacation and family)
were analyzed for measures of narrative productivity, number of cohesive ties and
cohesive adequacy. Mixed model analyses were completed for group comparisons.
RESULTS: Group differences were not observed on measures of language form as
measured by narrative productivity, communication units, and number of cohesive
ties produced. In contrast, group differences were observed in cohesive adequacy 
as individuals with PD produced a higher percentage of incomplete and erroneous
cohesive ties relative to the control subjects across narratives.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the conclusion that the BG in PD may have an
executive role in expressive language use that can be disrupted without impacting
language form.

PMID: 25757829  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


393. Clin Auton Res. 2015 Feb;25(1):53-9. doi: 10.1007/s10286-015-0271-4. Epub 2015
Mar 11.

Multiple system atrophy: Using clinical pharmacology to reveal pathophysiology.

Jordan J(1), Shibao C, Biaggioni I.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany, Jordan.Jens@mh-hannover.de.

Despite similarities in their clinical presentation, patients with multiple
system atrophy (MSA) have residual sympathetic tone and intact post-ganglionic
noradrenergic fibers, whereas patients with pure autonomic failure (PAF) and
Parkinson disease have efferent post-ganglionic autonomic denervation. These
differences are apparent biochemically, as well as in neurophysiological testing,
with near normal plasma norephrine in MSA but very low levels in PAF. These
differences are also reflected in the response patients have to drugs that
interact with the autonomic nervous system. For example, the ganglionic blocker
trimethaphan reduces residual sympathetic tone and lowers blood pressure in MSA, 
but less so in PAF. Conversely, the α2-antagonist yohimbine produces a greater
increase in blood pressure in MSA compared to PAF, although significant overlap
exists. In normal subjects, the norepinephrine reuptake (NET) inhibitor
atomoxetine has little effect on blood pressure because the peripheral effects of
NET inhibition that result in noradrenergic vasoconstriction are counteracted by 
the increase in brain norepinephrine, which reduces sympathetic outflow (a
clonidine-like effect). In patients with autonomic failure and intact peripheral 
noradrenergic fibers, only the peripheral vasoconstriction is apparent. This
translates to a significant pressor effect of atomoxetine in MSA, but not in PAF 
patients. Thus, pharmacological probes can be used to understand the
pathophysiology of the different forms of autonomic failure, assist in the
diagnosis, and aid in the management of orthostatic hypotension.

PMID: 25757803  [PubMed - in process]


394. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 11. doi: 10.1002/mds.26164. [Epub ahead of print]

Platelet mitochondrial activity and pesticide exposure in early Parkinson's
disease.

Bronstein JM(1), Paul K, Yang L, Haas RH, Shults CW, Le T, Ritz B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles,
California, USA; Greater Los Angeles Veterans Administration Medical Center, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of 
Parkinson's disease (PD), but the cause of this dysfunction is unclear.
METHODS: Platelet mitochondrial complex I and I/III (nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide cytochrome c reductase, NCCR) activities were measured in early PD
patients and matched controls enrolled in a population-based case-control study. 
Ambient agricultural pesticide exposures were assessed with a geographic
information system and California Pesticide Use Registry.
RESULTS: In contrast to some previous reports, we found no differences in complex
I and I/III activities in subjects with PD and controls. We did find that NCCR
activity correlated with subjects' exposure to pesticides known to inhibit
mitochondrial activity regardless of their diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Electron transport chain (ETC) activity is not altered in PD in this
well-characterized cohort when compared with community-matched controls but
appears to be affected by environmental toxins, such as mitochondria-inhibiting
pesticides. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25757798  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


395. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):696-704. doi: 10.1002/mds.26160. Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Long-term cognitive follow-up of Parkinson's disease patients with impulse
control disorders.

Siri C(1), Cilia R, Reali E, Pozzi B, Cereda E, Colombo A, Meucci N, Canesi M,
Zecchinelli AL, Tesei S, Mariani CB, Sacilotto G, Zini M, Pezzoli G.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson Institute, Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Milan, Italy.

This study investigated cognitive functions in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients 
with impulse control disorders (ICDs) and aimed to identify possible predictors
of behavioral outcome. In this longitudinal cohort study, 40 PD outpatients with 
ICDs and 40 without, were matched for sex, age at PD onset, age and disease
duration at cognitive assessment. All patients had two neuropsychological
assessments at least 2 years apart (mean, 3.5 years). Multivariate logistic
regression analysis was performed to identify predictors of ICDs remission at
follow-up. The PD patients with and without ICDs had overall comparable cognitive
performance at baseline. When evaluating changes between baseline and follow-up, 
we found significant group × time interactions in several frontal lobe-related
tests, with the ICDs group showing a less pronounced worsening over time. ICDs
remission was associated with better performance at baseline in working
memory-related tasks, such as digit span (odds ratio [OR] = 2.69 [95% confidence 
interval (CI), 1.09-6.66]) and attentive matrices (OR=1.19 [95%CI, 1.03-1.37]).
ICDs remitters and non-remitters had no remarkable differences in baseline
PD-related features and therapy management strategies (including the extent of
dopamine agonist dose reduction). In conclusion, ICDs in PD patients are not
related to greater cognitive impairment or executive dysfunction, but rather show
relatively lower cognitive decline over time. The impaired top-down inhibitory
control characterizing ICDs is likely attributable to a drug-induced
overstimulation of relatively preserved prefrontal cognitive functions. Full
behavioral remission in the long term was predicted by better working memory
abilities. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25757654  [PubMed - in process]


396. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):614-23. doi: 10.1002/mds.26158. Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Treatable causes of cerebellar ataxia.

Ramirez-Zamora A(1), Zeigler W, Desai N, Biller J.

Author information: 
(1)Albany Medical Center, MC- 70 Department of Neurology, Albany, New York, USA.

The cerebellar ataxia syndromes are a heterogeneous group of disorders clinically
characterized by the presence of cerebellar dysfunction. Initial assessment of
patients with progressive cerebellar ataxia is complex because of an extensive
list of potential diagnoses. A detailed history and comprehensive examination are
required for an accurate diagnosis and hierarchical diagnostic investigations.
Although no cure exists for most of these conditions, a small group of metabolic,
hereditary, inflammatory, and immune-mediated etiologies of cerebellar ataxia are
amenable to disease-modifying, targeted therapies. Over the past years,
disease-specific treatments have emerged. Thus, clinicians must become familiar
with these disorders because maximal therapeutic benefit is only possible when
done early. In this article, we review disorders in which cerebellar ataxia is a 
prominent clinical feature requiring targeted treatments along with specific
management recommendations. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder 
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25757427  [PubMed - in process]


397. Trends Biochem Sci. 2015 Apr;40(4):200-210. doi: 10.1016/j.tibs.2015.02.003. Epub
2015 Mar 8.

Mitochondrial dysfunction and mitophagy in Parkinson's: from familial to sporadic
disease.

Ryan BJ(1), Hoek S(1), Fon EA(2), Wade-Martins R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre, Department of Physiology, Anatomy and
Genetics, Le Gros Clark Building, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford,
OX1 3QX, UK. (2)McGill Parkinson Program, Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University,
Montréal, Québec H3A 2B4, Canada. (3)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre,
Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, Le Gros Clark Building,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3QX, UK. Electronic address: 
richard.wade-martins@dpag.ox.ac.uk.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder
characterised by the preferential loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia 
nigra. Mitochondrial dysfunction is increasingly appreciated as a key determinant
of dopaminergic neuronal susceptibility in PD and is a feature of both familial
and sporadic disease, as well as in toxin-induced Parkinsonism. Recently, the
mechanisms by which PD-associated mitochondrial proteins phosphatase and tensin
homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN)-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) and
parkin function and induce neurodegeneration have been identified. In addition,
increasing evidence implicates other PD-associated proteins such as α-synuclein
(α-syn) and leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) in mitochondrial dysfunction in 
genetic cases of PD with the potential for a large functional overlap with
sporadic disease. This review highlights how recent advances in understanding
familial PD-associated proteins have identified novel mechanisms and therapeutic 
strategies for addressing mitochondrial dysfunction in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25757399  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


398. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 10;10(3):e0118498. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118498.
eCollection 2015.

Effectiveness of traditional Chinese medicine as an adjunct therapy for
Parkinson's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Zhang G(1), Xiong N(1), Zhang Z(2), Liu L(1), Huang J(1), Yang J(1), Wu J(3), Lin
Z(4), Wang T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China. (2)Department of
Neurology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics and MOE Key Lab of Environment
and Health, School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University 
of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China. (4)Department of Psychiatry,
McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Division of Alcohol and Drug Abuse, and 
Mailman Neuroscience Research Center, Belmont, Massachusetts, United States of
America; Harvard Neuro Discovery Center, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative
disease that seriously hinders limb activities and affects patients' lives. We
performed a meta-analysis aiming to systematically review and quantitatively
synthesize the efficacy and safety of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) as an
adjunct therapy for clinical PD patients.
METHODS: An electronic search was conducted in PubMed, Cochrane Controlled Trials
Register, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chinese Scientific Journals
Database and Wanfang data to identify randomized trials evaluating TCM adjuvant
therapy versus conventional treatment. The change from baseline of the Unified
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale score (UPDRS) was used to estimate the
effectiveness of the therapies.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven articles involving 2314 patients from 1999 to 2013 were
included. Potentially marked improvements were shown in UPDRS I (SMD 0.68, 95%CI 
0.38, 0.98), II (WMD 2.41, 95%CI 1.66, 2.62), III (WMD 2.45, 95%CI 2.03, 2.86),
IV (WMD 0.32, 95%CI 0.15, 049) and I-IV total scores (WMD 6.18, 95%CI 5.06, 7.31)
in patients with TCM plus dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) compared to DRT
alone. Acupuncture add-on therapy was markedly beneficial for improving the UPDRS
I-IV total score of PD patients (WMD 10.96, 95%CI 5.85, 16.07). However, TCM
monotherapy did not improve the score. The effectiveness seemed to be more
obvious in PD patients with longer adjunct durations. TCM adjuvant therapy was
generally safe and well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the data were limited by methodological flaws in many
studies, the evidence indicates the potential superiority of TCM as an
alternative therapeutic for PD treatment and justifies further high-quality
studies.

PMCID: PMC4355291
PMID: 25756963  [PubMed - in process]


399. Int Clin Psychopharmacol. 2015 May;30(3):158-66. doi:
10.1097/YIC.0000000000000070.

Improvement in verbal memory following SSRI augmentation of antipsychotic
treatment is associated with changes in the expression of mRNA encoding for the
GABA-A receptor and BDNF in PMC of schizophrenic patients.

Silver H(1), Mandiuk N, Einoch R, Susser E, Danovich L, Bilker W, Youdim M,
Weinreb O.

Author information: 
(1)aMolecular Neuropsychiatry Unit bClinical Research Unit, Sha'ar Menashe Brain 
Behavior Laboratory, Sha'ar Menashe Mental Health Center cEve Topf and National
Parkinson Foundation Centers of Excellence for Neurodegenerative Diseases
Research, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion Israel Institute of Technology,
Haifa, Israel dDepartment of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Verbal memory impairment in schizophrenia is associated with abnormalities in
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)
systems. Recent evidence from animal and clinical studies that adding fluvoxamine
to antipsychotics alters the expression of transcripts encoding for the GABA-A
receptor and BDNF led us to postulate that fluvoxamine augmentation may improve
memory in schizophrenia. To test this, we examined the effect of add-on
fluvoxamine on verbal memory and other cognitive functions and related it to the 
expression of mRNA coding for the GABA-A receptor and BDNF in peripheral
mononuclear cells (PMC) of schizophrenic patients. Twenty-nine patients completed
a 6-week study in which fluvoxamine (100 mg/day) was added to ongoing
antipsychotic treatment. Verbal memory, abstraction working memory, object and
face recognition, and psychomotor speed and clinical symptoms were assessed at
baseline and after 3 and 6 weeks of treatment. Blood samples were taken at
baseline and weeks 1, 3, and 6 and PMC was assayed for the GABA-A beta3 receptor 
and BDNF mRNA by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR. Associative
and logical verbal memory improved significantly and showed a significant
correlation with changes in PMC BDNF and GABA-A beta3 receptor mRNA, which
increased during treatment. Abstraction and object recognition improved, but this
did not correlate with PMC measures. Negative and positive symptoms improved
significantly; the latter showed significant correlations with changes in PMC
measures. Addition of fluvoxamine to antipsychotics improves verbal memory. It is
postulated that the mechanism involves enhanced GABA-A receptor/BDNF-dependent
synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.

PMID: 25756551  [PubMed - in process]


400. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 5. doi: 10.1002/mds.26167. [Epub ahead of print]

Transcranial magnetic stimulation follow-up study in early Parkinson's disease: A
decline in compensation with disease progression?

Kojovic M(1), Kassavetis P, Bologna M, Pareés I, Rubio-Agusti I, Beraredelli A,
Edwards MJ, Rothwell JC, Bhatia KP.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience & Movement Disorders, UCL, Institute
of Neurology, The National Hospital for Neurology & Neurosurgery, Queen Square,
London, United Kingdom; Department of Neurology, University of Ljubljana,
Slovenia.

A number of neurophysiological abnormalities have been described in patients with
Parkinson's disease, but very few longitudinal studies of how these change with
disease progression have been reported. We describe measures of motor cortex
inhibition and plasticity at 6 and 12 mo in 12 patients that we previously
reported at initial diagnosis. Given the well-known interindividual variation in 
these measures, we were particularly concerned with the within-subject changes
over time. Patients were assessed clinically, and transcranial magnetic
stimulation (TMS) was used to measure motor cortical excitability, inhibition
(short interval intracortical inhibition, cortical silent period), and plasticity
(response to excitatory paired associative stimulation protocol) in both
hemispheres. All measurements were performed 6 mo and 12 mo after the baseline
experiments. Asymmetry in clinical motor symptoms was reflected in asymmetry of
plasticity and inhibition. In the group as a whole, little change was seen in any
of the parameters over 12 mo. However, analysis of within-individual data showed 
clear correlations between changes in clinical asymmetry and asymmetry of
response to paired associative stimulation protocol and cortical silent period.
Longitudinal changes in cortical silent period and response to paired associative
stimulation protocol in Parkinson's disease reflect dynamic effects on motor
cortex that are related to progression of motor signs. They are useful objective 
markers of early disease progression that could be used to detect effects of
disease-modifying therapies. The decline in heightened plasticity that was
present at disease onset may reflect failure of compensatory mechanisms that
maintained function in the preclinical state. © 2015 International Parkinson and 
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25753906  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


401. J Neuroimaging. 2015 Mar 5. doi: 10.1111/jon.12230. [Epub ahead of print]

White Matter Hyperintensities and Mild Cognitive Impairment in Parkinson's
Disease.

Mak E(1), Dwyer MG, Ramasamy DP, Au WL, Tan LC, Zivadinov R, Kandiah N.

Author information: 
(1)Buffalo Neuroimaging Analysis Center, Department of Neurology, School of
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University at Buffalo, State University of New 
York, Buffalo, NY; Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute,
Singapore.

OBJECTIVES: The clinical implications of white matter hyperintensities (WMH) in
non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) have not been thoroughly examined. To
address this, we investigated the spatial distribution of WMH and their regional 
predilection in non-demented patients with mild PD.
METHODS: Cognitive assessments classified the sample into patients with mild
cognitive impairment (PD-MCI, n = 25) and patients with no cognitive impairment
(PD-NCI, n = 65) based on the recent formal Movement Disorder Task Force
diagnostic criteria. The mean age was 65.1 ± 7.7 years, disease duration was 5.3 
± 3.9 years, and Hoehn and Yahr stage was 1.9 ± .4. WMHs were outlined on
T2-weighted imaging using a semi-automated technique. The spatial distribution of
WMHs were compared between PD-MCI and PD-NCI using voxel-wise lesion probability 
maps (LPM). General linear models examined the associations between spatially
specific WMHs and cognitive domains.
RESULTS: LPM analyses showed significant differences in the spatial distribution 
of WMH in PD-MCI compared to PD-NCI in widespread regions of the brain (P < .05).
PD-MCI demonstrated significantly greater total and periventricular WMHs compared
to PD-NCI (P ≤ .02). Spatial distribution of WMHs was also significantly
associated with global cognition, performance on the Frontal Assessment Battery
and Fruit Fluency (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Voxel-wise LPM analysis revealed differences in the spatial
distribution of WMH between PD-MCI and PD-NCI patients, particularly in the
periventricular regions. A more widespread extent of WMH might be indicative of
cognitive deterioration. Our findings warrant further longitudinal investigation 
into the importance of WMH spatial distribution as a predictor for conversion
from PD to PD with dementia.

Copyright © 2015 by the American Society of Neuroimaging.

PMID: 25753576  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


402. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):471-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.009. Epub 2015 Feb 19.

Dopaminergic denervation severity depends on COMT Val158Met polymorphism in
Parkinson's disease.

Muellner J(1), Gharrad I(2), Habert MO(3), Kas A(3), Martini JB(4),
Cormier-Dequaire F(5), Tahiri K(2), Vidailhet M(5), Meier N(1), Brice A(2),
Schuepbach M(1), Mallet A(6), Hartmann A(5), Corvol JC(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, Freiburgstrasse 100, 3010 Bern,
Switzerland; Sorbonne University, UPMC Paris 06 UMR S 1127, and Inserm U 1127 and
CIC 1422, and CNRS UR 7225, and ICM, 75013 Paris, France. (2)Sorbonne University,
UPMC Paris 06 UMR S 1127, and Inserm U 1127 and CIC 1422, and CNRS UR 7225, and
ICM, 75013 Paris, France. (3)AP-HP, Department of Nuclear Medicine,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, UPMC Paris 06, CNRS UMR 7371,
INSERM U1146, 75013 Paris, France. (4)AP-HP, Department of Nuclear Medicine,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, UPMC Paris 06, CNRS UMR 7371,
INSERM U1146, 75013 Paris, France; Centre d'Analyse et de Traitement des Images
(CATI), 75013 Paris, France. (5)Sorbonne University, UPMC Paris 06 UMR S 1127,
and Inserm U 1127 and CIC 1422, and CNRS UR 7225, and ICM, 75013 Paris, France;
AP-HP, Department of Neurology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France. 
(6)Inserm U436, Laboratory of Mathematical and Statistical Modelisation in
Biology and Medicine, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 91 bd de l'hôpital, 75634 Paris
Cedex 13, France; APHP, Clinical Research Unit, Department of Biostatistics,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France. (7)Sorbonne University, UPMC
Paris 06 UMR S 1127, and Inserm U 1127 and CIC 1422, and CNRS UR 7225, and ICM,
75013 Paris, France; AP-HP, Department of Neurology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 
75013 Paris, France. Electronic address: jean-christophe.corvol@psl.aphp.fr.

BACKGROUND: Catecholamine-O-methyl-tranferase (COMT) initiates dopamine
degradation. Its activity is mainly determined by a single nucleotide
polymorphism in the COMT gene (Val158Met, rs4680) separating high (Val/Val,
COMT(HH)), intermediate (Val/Met, COMT(HL)) and low metabolizers (Met/Met,
COMT(LL)). We investigated dopaminergic denervation in the striatum in PD
patients according to COMT rs4680 genotype.
METHODS: Patients with idiopathic PD were assessed for motor severity (UPDRS-III 
rating scale in OFF-state), dopaminergic denervation using [123I]-FP-CIT SPECT
imaging, and genotyped for the COMT rs4680 enzyme. [123I]-FP-CIT binding
potential (BP) for each voxel was defined by the ratio of tracer-binding in the
region of interest (striatum, caudate nucleus and putamen) to that in a region of
non-specific activity. Genotyping was performed using TaqMan(®) SNP genotyping
assay. We used a regression model to evaluate the effect of COMT genotype on the 
BP in the striatum and its sub-regions.
RESULTS: Genotype distribution was: 11 (27.5%) COMT(HH), 26 (65%) COMT(HL) and 3 
(7.5%) COMT(LL). There were no significant differences in disease severity,
treatments, or motor scores between genotypes. When adjusted to clinical
severity, gender and age, low and intermediate metabolizers showed significantly 
higher rates of striatal denervation (COMT(HL+LL) BP = 1.32 ± 0.04) than high
metabolizers (COMT(HH), BP = 1.6 ± 0.08; F(1.34) = 9.0, p = 0.005). Striatal
sub-regions showed similar results. BP and UPDRS-III motor scores (r = 0.44,
p = 0.04) (p < 0.001) were highly correlated. There was a gender effect, but no
gender-genotype interaction.
CONCLUSIONS: Striatal denervation differs according to COMT-Val158Met
polymorphism. COMT activity may play a role as a compensatory mechanism in PD
motor symptoms.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25753458  [PubMed - in process]


403. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):489-93. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.015. Epub 2015 Feb 25.

Apathy and striatal dopamine transporter levels in de-novo, untreated Parkinson's
disease patients.

Santangelo G(1), Vitale C(2), Picillo M(3), Cuoco S(4), Moccia M(5), Pezzella
D(4), Erro R(6), Longo K(7), Vicidomini C(8), Pellecchia MT(3), Amboni M(7),
Brunetti A(9), Salvatore M(9), Barone P(10), Pappatà S(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Caserta, Italy;
IDC-Hermitage-Capodimonte, Naples, Italy. (2)IDC-Hermitage-Capodimonte, Naples,
Italy; University Parthenope, Naples, Italy. (3)Neurodegenerative Diseases
Center, Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Salerno, Salerno,
Italy. (4)Department of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Caserta, Italy. 
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive Science and Odontostomatology,
Federico II University, Naples, Italy. (6)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience
and Movement Disorders, University College London (UCL) Institute of Neurology,
London, United Kingdom. (7)IDC-Hermitage-Capodimonte, Naples, Italy. (8)Institute
of Biostructure and Bioimaging, CNR, Naples, Italy. (9)Department of Advanced
Biomedical Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(10)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive Science and Odontostomatology,
Federico II University, Naples, Italy. Electronic address: pbarone@unisa.it.
(11)Institute of Biostructure and Bioimaging, CNR, Naples, Italy. Electronic
address: sabina.pappata@ibb.cnr.it.

INTRODUCTION: Apathy is a neuropsychiatric symptom in Parkinson's Disease (PD)
which has a negative impact on quality of life and might be related in part to
damage of presynaptic dopaminergic system. Little is known about relationship
between striatal dopamine levels and apathy in PD patients without dementia
and/or depression. The aim of the present study was to investigate the
relationship between "pure apathy" and striatal dopamine uptake in untreated,
drug-naïve PD patients without clinically significant dementia and/or depression.
METHODS: Fourteen PD patients with pure apathy and 14 PD patients without apathy,
matched for age, side of motor symptoms at onset, motor disability and disease
duration, underwent both neuropsychological and behavioral examination including 
self-rated version of the Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES-S). All patients underwent
123 I-FP-CIT (DaT-SCAN) SPECT to assess dopamine transporter (DAT) striatal
uptake.
RESULTS: PD patients with apathy showed lower DAT levels in the striatum than
non-apathetic patients. After Bonferroni correction the difference between groups
was significant in the right caudate.
CONCLUSIONS: Apathy is associated with reduced striatal dopamine transporter
levels, independent of motor disability and depression in non-demented PD
patients. These findings suggest that dysfunction of dopaminergic innervation in 
the striatum and particularly in the right caudate may contribute to development 
of apathy in early PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25753457  [PubMed - in process]


404. Genes Brain Behav. 2015 Mar;14(3):260-70. doi: 10.1111/gbb.12210.

Chronic L-DOPA induces hyperactivity, normalization of gait and dyskinetic
behavior in MitoPark mice.

Gellhaar S(1), Marcellino D, Abrams MB, Galter D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Dopamine (DA) replacement therapy continues to be the gold standard treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD), as it improves key motor symptoms including
bradykinesia and gait disturbances. With time, treatment induces side effects in 
the majority of patients, known as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), which are
often studied in animals by the use of unilateral, toxin-induced rodent models.
In this study, we used the progressive, genetic PD model MitoPark to specifically
evaluate bilateral changes in motor behavior following long-term L-DOPA treatment
at three different stages of striatal DA depletion. Besides locomotor activity,
we assessed changes in gait with two automated gait analysis systems and the
development of dyskinetic behavior. Long-term treatment with a moderate,
clinically relevant dose of L-DOPA (8 mg/kg) gradually produced age-dependent
hyperactivity in MitoPark mice. In voluntary and forced gait analyses, we show
that MitoPark mice with severe DA depletion have distinct gait characteristics,
which are normalized to control levels following long-term L-DOPA treatment. The 
cylinder test showed an age-dependent and gradual development of bilateral LID.
Significant increase in striatal FosB and prodynorphin expression was found to
accompany the behavior changes. Taken together, we report that MitoPark mice
model both behavioral and biochemical characteristics of long-term L-DOPA
treatment in PD patients and provide a novel, consistent and progressive animal
model of dyskinesia to aid in the discovery and evaluation of better treatment
options to counteract LID.

© 2015 The Authors. Genes, Brain and Behavior published by International
Behavioural and Neural Genetics Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMCID: PMC4405092
PMID: 25752644  [PubMed - in process]


405. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Mar 6. doi: 10.1111/ane.12391. [Epub ahead of print]

The long-term development of non-motor problems after STN-DBS.

Lilleeng B(1), Gjerstad M, Baardsen R, Dalen I, Larsen JP.

Author information: 
(1)The Norwegian Centre for Movement Disorders, Stavanger University Hospital,
Stavanger, Norway.

OBJECTIVES: Stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) is an established
treatment with long-term beneficial effects on motor symptoms in patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD). The long-term development of non-motor problems after
STN-DBS is not fully understood. In this study, we have studied how non-motor
problems develop in patients with and without STN-DBS.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We collected data from a prospectively followed cohort of 
patients that had been operated with STN-DBS 6-9 years before final examination
and compared our findings to the longitudinal development of non-motor problems
in a non-operated, comparable reference population.
RESULTS: In general, the non-motor problems of advanced PD seem to develop
independently of treatment with STN-DBS. We found that depressions do not worsen 
after STN-DBS, and the Montgomery and Aasberg Depression Rating Scale score in
operated patients was substantially reduced from pre-operatively to
post-operatively. Further, fatigue may represent an important unrecognized side
effect of long-term stimulation, as fatigue was found to increase rapidly in
operated patients already a year after surgery and continued to increase trough
the 6- to 9-year follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The non-motor problems of advanced PD seem to develop independently 
of treatment with STN-DBS. This may influence the strategy for choice of when to 
perform this therapy for eligible patients.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25752590  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


406. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):368. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4219.

Deep brain stimulation for Parkinson disease in elderly individuals—reply.

Rahimpour S(1), Turner DA(1), Lad SP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Comment on
    JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):367.
    JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):367-8.
    JAMA Neurol. 2014 Oct;71(10):1290-5.

PMID: 25751524  [PubMed - in process]


407. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):367-8. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4222.

Deep brain stimulation for Parkinson disease in elderly individuals.

Ye W(1), Norris JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, 
Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire,
England. (2)Department of Surgery, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge,
Cambridgeshire, England.

Comment in
    JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):368.

Comment on
    JAMA Neurol. 2014 Oct;71(10):1290-5.

PMID: 25751523  [PubMed - in process]


408. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):367. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4216.

Deep brain stimulation for Parkinson disease in elderly individuals.

Aquino CC(1), Lozano AM(2), Lang AE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Center and the Edmond J. Safra
Program in Parkinson's Disease, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. (2)Division of Neurosurgery, Toronto Western Hospital and University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):368.

Comment on
    JAMA Neurol. 2014 Oct;71(10):1290-5.

PMID: 25751522  [PubMed - in process]


409. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2015 Feb;2(2):196-201. doi: 10.1002/acn3.146. Epub 2015
Jan 8.

The avascular zone and neuronal remodeling of the fovea in Parkinson disease.

Miri S(1), Shrier EM(2), Glazman S(1), Ding Y(3), Selesnick I(3), Kozlowski
PB(4), Bodis-Wollner I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center Brooklyn, New York,
11203. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center Brooklyn,
New York, 11203 ; SUNY Eye Institute Brooklyn, New York. (3)New York University
New York City, New York. (4)Neuromedlab Staten Island, NY, 10314 ; Touro College 
of the Osteopathic Medicine New York City, New York, 10027. (5)Department of
Neurology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center Brooklyn, New York, 11203 ; Department
of Ophthalmology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center Brooklyn, New York, 11203 ; SUNY 
Eye Institute Brooklyn, New York.

Inner foveal thinning and intracellular alpha-synuclein were demonstrated in the 
retina in Parkinson disease. While pathognomonic alpha-synuclein is associated
with embryonic dopaminergic (DA) neurons, postmortem studies in the nervous
system and retina show prominent effect also in non-DA neurons. We evaluated
foveal capillaries and foveal thickness in 23 Parkinson disease subjects and 13
healthy controls using retinal fluorescein angiography and optical coherence
tomography. The size of the foveal avascular zone inversely correlates with
foveal thinning. Foveal thinning highly correlates with motor impairment and also
disease duration. Quantifying capillary and neuronal remodeling could serve as
biological markers.

PMCID: PMC4338959
PMID: 25750923  [PubMed]


410. Ann Rehabil Med. 2015 Feb;39(1):128-32. doi: 10.5535/arm.2015.39.1.128. Epub 2015
Feb 28.

Correction of camptocormia using a cruciform anterior spinal hyperextension brace
and back extensor strengthening exercise in a patient with Parkinson disease.

Ye BK(1), Kim HS(2), Kim YW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine and Research Institute of Rehabilitation
Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan
Hospital, Goyang, Korea.

Parkinson disease, one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, is
characterized by cardinal motor features including bradykinesia, rigidity,
resting tremor, postural instability, freezing gait, and fatigue. Of these,
postural instability in the form of hyperflexion of the thoracolumbar spine upon 
standing and walking that disappears on recumbent positioning is called
camptocormia. Many different trials have been conducted on the treatment of
camptocormia, including physiotherapy, corsets, medications, and deep brain
stimulation. However, there is insufficient evidence as to which treatment
modality is the most valid in terms of effectiveness, cost, safety, and patient
satisfaction. In this study, we present a patient whose symptom of camptocormia
was effectively resolved using a cruciform anterior spinal hyperextension (CASH) 
brace and back extensor strengthening exercise which was modified through
follow-ups based on a short-term outpatient setting for proper application with
minimal discomfort. The patient was satisfied with the amount of correction
provided by the brace and exercise.

PMCID: PMC4351484
PMID: 25750882  [PubMed]


411. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 May;407(13):3627-35. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-8578-5. Epub
2015 Mar 8.

An LCMS method for the assay of melittin in cosmetic formulations containing bee 
venom.

Tusiimire J(1), Wallace J, Dufton M, Parkinson J, Clements CJ, Young L, Park JK, 
Jeon JW, Watson DG.

Author information: 
(1)Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Strathclyde, 161 Cathedral Street, Glasgow, G4 0RE, UK.

There is a growing interest in the potential of bee venom in cosmetics as a
rejuvenating agent. Products currently on the market do not specify exactly their
content of bee venom (BV). Therefore, we developed a method for the detection and
quantification of melittin, as a marker of bee venom content, in selected
commercial creams which contained BV according to their marketing claims, in
order to gauge the relative quality of such formulations. A quantitative method
was achieved following a rigorous extraction procedure involving sonication,
liquid-liquid extraction and solid phase extraction since carryover of excipients
was found to cause a rapid deterioration in the chromatographic performance. The 
method employed a standard additions approach using, as spiking standard,
purified melittin isolated from bee venom and standardised by quantitative NMR.
The aqueous extracts of the spiked creams were analysed by reversed phase LCMS on
an LTQ Orbitrap mass spectrometer. The purity of the melittin spiking standard
was determined to be 96.0 %. The lowest measured mean melittin content in the
creams was 3.19 ppm (±1.58 ppm 95 % CI) while the highest was 37.21 ppm
(±2.01 ppm 95 % CI). The method showed adequate linearity (R (2) ≥ 0.98) and a
recovery of 87.7-102.2 % from a spiked blank cream. An assay precision of <20 %
RSD was achieved for all but one sample where the RSD value was 27.5 %. The
method was sensitive enough for use in routine assay of BV-containing cosmetic
creams. Differences in the melittin content of the commercial products assayed
were nearly tenfold.

PMID: 25749793  [PubMed - in process]


412. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Mar 4;95:121-129. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.02.023. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Pharmacological stimulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor type 4 in a rat
model of Parkinson's disease and l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia: Comparison between a 
positive allosteric modulator and an orthosteric agonist.

Iderberg H(1), Maslava N(2), Thompson AD(3), Bubser M(3), Niswender CM(3),
Hopkins CR(4), Lindsley CW(4), Conn PJ(3), Jones CK(3), Cenci MA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology Unit, Department of Experimental Medical
Science, Lund University, Sweden. Electronic address: Hanna.Iderberg@med.lu.se.
(2)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology Unit, Department of Experimental Medical
Science, Lund University, Sweden. (3)Vanderbilt Center for Neuroscience Drug
Discovery, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Pharmacology,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA. (4)Vanderbilt Center for Neuroscience 
Drug Discovery, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA; Department of
Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Chemistry,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. (5)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology
Unit, Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, Sweden.
Electronic address: Angela.Cenci_Nilsson@med.lu.se.

Metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 (mGlu4) negatively modulates GABA and glutamate
release in the 'indirect pathway' of the basal ganglia, and has thus been
proposed as a potential target to treat motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease.
Here, we present an extensive comparison of the behavioural effects produced by
the mGlu4 positive allosteric modulator (PAM), VU0364770, and the mGlu4
orthosteric agonist, LSP1-2111, in rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions. The
compounds' activity was initially assessed in a test of haloperidol-induced
catalepsy in intact rats, and effective doses were then evaluated in the
hemiparkinsonian animal model. Neither of the two compounds modified the
development of dyskinetic behaviours elicited by chronic treatment with full
doses of l-DOPA. When given together with l-DOPA to rats with already established
dyskinesias, neither VU0364770 nor LSP1-2111 modified the abnormal involuntary
movement scores. VU0364770 potentiated, however, the motor stimulant effect of a 
subthreshold l-DOPA dose in certain behavioural tests, whereas LSP1-2111 lacked
this ability. Taken together, these results indicate that a pharmacological
stimulation of mGlu4 lacks intrinsic antidyskinetic activity, but may have
DOPA-sparing activity in Parkinson's disease. For the latter indication, mGlu4
PAMs appear to provide a better option than orthosteric agonists.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25749357  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


413. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):465-70. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.008. Epub 2015 Feb 18.

Side of motor onset is associated with hemisphere-specific memory decline and
lateralized gray matter loss in Parkinson's disease.

Lee EY(1), Sen S(1), Eslinger PJ(2), Wagner D(1), Kong L(3), Lewis MM(4), Du
G(1), Huang X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA. (2)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania 
State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA;
Department of Public Health Sciences, Pennsylvania State University-Milton S.
Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA; Department of Radiology,
Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA
17033, USA. (3)Department of Public Health Sciences, Pennsylvania State
University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA; Department of Pharmacology, Pennsylvania 
State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA; Department of Pharmacology, Pennsylvania 
State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA;
Department of Radiology, Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical 
Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA; Department of Neurosurgery, Pennsylvania State
University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033, USA; Department
of Kinesiology, Pennsylvania State University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center,
Hershey, PA 17033, USA. Electronic address: xuemei@psu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that
generally begins with asymmetric motor symptoms that persist over time. This
suggests that the dysfunction in the nigrostriatal motor circuit may be
lateralized. The present study examined whether the asymmetric motor presentation
is associated with hemisphere-specific cognitive decline and lateralized gray
matter volume loss.
METHODS: Data from comprehensive cognitive tests that measured visuospatial and
verbal functions and high-resolution T1-weighted magnetic resonance images of the
brain were acquired in 23 PD subjects with left-side motor symptom onset (PDL),
23 PD subjects with right-side onset (PDR), and 23 matched Controls. GM volume
differences were assessed using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Cognitive results 
and VBM were compared among the three groups, and correlation analyses were
performed between those cognitive domains and brain areas that showed significant
differences.
RESULTS: PDL subjects had lower performance on visuospatial memory tasks compared
to PDR. Furthermore, PDL subjects experienced lateralized GM loss, which was
localized predominantly in the right hemisphere contralateral to the side of
motor symptom onset. Visuospatial memory performance in PDL was correlated with
GM loss in the right middle frontal gyrus and precuneus.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that the onset of asymmetric motor symptoms in PD 
may be associated with hemisphere-specific memory decline and lateralized GM
loss, particularly in PDL. This study underscores the importance of classifying
PD subgroups based on the side of motor symptom onset for clinical care and
research to optimize cognitive outcomes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4424064 [Available on 2016-05-01]
PMID: 25749355  [PubMed - in process]


414. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):477-82. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.011. Epub 2015 Feb 21.

Cardiovascular autonomic testing performed with a new integrated instrumental
approach is useful in differentiating MSA-P from PD at an early stage.

Baschieri F(1), Calandra-Buonaura G(2), Doria A(3), Mastrolilli F(4), Palareti
A(5), Barletta G(6), Solieri L(7), Guaraldi P(8), Martinelli P(9), Cortelli
P(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of
Bologna, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: francesca.baschieri@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of
Bologna, Bologna, Italy; IRCCS, Institute of Neurological Sciences, Bellaria
Hospital, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: giovanna.calandra@unibo.it.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of
Bologna, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: andrea.doria3@studio.unibo.it.
(4)Department of Neurology, Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust, Queen Elizabeth
Hospital, London, UK. Electronic address: fmastrolilli@yahoo.it. (5)Department of
Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
Electronic address: aldopaolo.palareti@unibo.it. (6)Department of Biomedical and 
Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy; IRCCS,
Institute of Neurological Sciences, Bellaria Hospital, Bologna, Italy. Electronic
address: giorgio.barletta@unibo.it. (7)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor
Sciences (DIBINEM), University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy; IRCCS, Institute of
Neurological Sciences, Bellaria Hospital, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address:
laura.solieri@unibo.it. (8)Public Local Health Authority of Modena and Bologna,
Italy. Electronic address: pietro.guaraldi@unibo.it. (9)Department of Biomedical 
and Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
Electronic address: paolo.martinelli@unibo.it. (10)Department of Biomedical and
Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy; IRCCS,
Institute of Neurological Sciences, Bellaria Hospital, Bologna, Italy. Electronic
address: pietro.cortelli@unibo.it.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether a battery of cardiovascular autonomic tests
(Ewing's battery, EB) performed with a new integrated instrumental approach is
useful in differentiating multiple system atrophy with predominant parkinsonism
(MSA-P) from Parkinson's disease (PD) at an early stage.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed EB tests of all the patients (n = 99) with a
parkinsonian syndrome referred to our clinic who performed EB during the first
diagnostic workup and were subsequently evaluated at least once a year until a
final diagnosis of MSA-P (n = 34) or PD (n = 65). Thirty-eight controls matched
for age and sex were included. EB consisted of head-up tilt test (HUTT), Valsalva
manoeuvre (VM), deep breathing, and sustained handgrip whose correct execution
and results were checked and obtained automatically. Results were compared
between groups. Discriminant analysis was performed to identify MSA-P or PD
patients.
RESULTS: Orthostatic hypotension was found in 22 MSA-P and 3 PD patients.
Cardiovascular reflexes indices were significantly more affected in MSA-P
compared to PD and controls. EB presented a 91% sensitivity and 94% specificity
in the differentiation of MSA-P and PD. HUTT + VM presented a 91% sensitivity and
92% specificity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that EB or HUTT + VM performed with an
integrated instrumental approach and analyzed with the discriminant procedure may
distinguish MSA-P from PD at an early stage and might improve the accuracy of
current diagnostic criteria. However, a validation in separate samples and
prospective studies is needed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25749354  [PubMed - in process]


415. Cytotherapy. 2015 May;17(5):665-79. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2015.02.001. Epub 2015
Mar 5.

Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons improve motor asymmetry in a 
6-hydroxydopamine-induced rat model of Parkinson's disease.

Han F(1), Wang W(2), Chen B(2), Chen C(2), Li S(2), Lu X(2), Duan J(2), Zhang
Y(2), Zhang YA(3), Guo W(2), Li G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine, The Liaocheng People's
Hospital/Affiliated Liaocheng Hospital, Taishan Medical University, Shandong,
China. Electronic address: Fhan2013@126.com. (2)Centre for Stem Cells and
Regenerative Medicine, The Liaocheng People's Hospital/Affiliated Liaocheng
Hospital, Taishan Medical University, Shandong, China. (3)Centre for Cell
Therapy, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND AIMS: Since human embryonic stem cells and human fetal neural stem
cells have immune rejection and ethical issues, recent advancements in induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) provide new possibilities to study autologous 
cell therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: We isolated human skin fibroblasts from normal individuals and patients 
with PD; we generated iPS cells by transfecting these human skin fibroblasts with
retroviral reprogramming factors of OCT4, SOX2, KLF4 and c-MYC and induced iPS
cells to differentiate neural stem cells (NSCs) and then into neurons and
dopamine neurons in vitro.
RESULTS: We found that iPS cell-derived NSC transplant into the striatum of the
6-hydroxydopamine (OHDA)-induced PD rats improved their functional defects of
rotational asymmetry at 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks after transplantation. iPS
cell-derived NSCs were found to survive and integrate into the brain of
transplanted PD rats and differentiated into neurons, including dopamine neurons 
in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: Transplantation of iPS cell-derived NSCs has therapeutic potential
for PD. Our study provided experimental proof for future clinical application of 
iPS cells in cell-based treatment of PD.

Copyright © 2015 International Society for Cellular Therapy. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25747741  [PubMed - in process]


416. Neurochem Int. 2015 Apr-May;83-84:19-27. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2015.01.003. Epub 
2015 Mar 3.

Effects of (-)-sesamin on 6-hydroxydopamine-induced neurotoxicity in PC12 cells
and dopaminergic neuronal cells of Parkinson's disease rat models.

Park HJ(1), Zhao TT(1), Lee KS(1), Lee SH(2), Shin KS(1), Park KH(1), Choi HS(3),
Lee MK(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy and Research Center for Bioresource and Health, Chungbuk
National University, 52, Naesudong-ro, Heungduk-gu, Cheongju 361-763, Republic of
Korea. (2)College of Pharmacy, Young Nam University, 214-1, Dae-dong, Kyeongsan
712-749, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Food and Nutrition, Chungcheong
University, 38, Wuelgok-gil, Cheongwon-gun, Chungbuk 363-890, Republic of Korea. 
(4)College of Pharmacy and Research Center for Bioresource and Health, Chungbuk
National University, 52, Naesudong-ro, Heungduk-gu, Cheongju 361-763, Republic of
Korea. Electronic address: myklee@chungbuk.ac.kr.

The present study investigated the effects of (-)-sesamin on 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA)-induced neurotoxicity using PC12 cells and dopaminergic neuronal cells
of 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). In PC12 cells,
treatment with (-)-sesamin (25 µM) reduced 6-OHDA (100 µM)-induced cell death and
induced transient extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) phosphorylation 
and Bad phosphorylation at Ser112 (BadSer112). In contrast, sustained ERK1/2
phosphorylation, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) and c-Jun
N-terminal kinase (JNK1/2) phosphorylation, and cleaved-caspase-3 activity, all
of which were induced by 6-OHDA (100 µM), were inhibited by treatment with
(-)-sesamin (25 µM). Furthermore, co-treatment with (-)-sesamin (30 mg/kg, p.o.) 
once a day for 28 days significantly increased the number of tyrosine
hydroxylase-immunopositive neuronal cells and the levels of dopamine,
norepinephrine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and homovanillic acid in the
substantia nigra-striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of PD with or without
L-DOPA treatment. These results suggest that (-)-sesamin protects 6-OHDA-induced 
cytotoxicity via the activation of transient ERK1/2-BadSer112 system and the
inhibition of sustained ERK-p38MAPK-JNK1/2-caspase-3 system in PC12 cells.
(-)-Sesamin also shows protective effects on long-term L-DOPA therapy in
dopaminergic neuronal cells of PD rat models. (-)-Sesamin may serve as adjuvant
therapeutics in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25747493  [PubMed - in process]


417. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 May;77:71-87. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.02.020. Epub 2015 Mar
3.

Recruitment of the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum in Parkinsonian rats
following skilled aerobic exercise.

Wang Z(1), Guo Y(1), Myers KG(1), Heintz R(1), Holschneider DP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Departments of
Biomedical Engineering, Neurology, Cell and Neurobiology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: holschne@usc.edu.

Exercise modality and complexity play a key role in determining
neurorehabilitative outcome in Parkinson's disease (PD). Exercise training (ET)
that incorporates both motor skill training and aerobic exercise has been
proposed to synergistically improve cognitive and automatic components of motor
control in PD patients. Here we introduced such a skilled aerobic ET paradigm in 
a rat model of dopaminergic deafferentation. Rats with bilateral, intra-striatal 
6-hydroxydopamine lesions were exposed to forced ET for 4weeks, either on a
simple running wheel (non-skilled aerobic exercise, NSAE) or on a complex wheel
with irregularly spaced rungs (skilled aerobic exercise, SAE). Cerebral perfusion
was mapped during horizontal treadmill walking or at rest using
[(14)C]-iodoantipyrine 1week after the completion of ET. Regional cerebral blood 
flow (rCBF) was quantified by autoradiography and analyzed in 3-dimensionally
reconstructed brains by statistical parametric mapping. SAE compared to NSAE
resulted in equal or greater recovery in motor deficits, as well as greater
increases in rCBF during walking in the prelimbic area of the prefrontal cortex, 
broad areas of the somatosensory cortex, and the cerebellum. NSAE compared to SAE
animals showed greater activation in the dorsal caudate-putamen and dorsal
hippocampus. Seed correlation analysis revealed enhanced functional connectivity 
in SAE compared to NSAE animals between the prelimbic cortex and motor areas, as 
well as altered functional connectivity between midline cerebellum and
sensorimotor regions. Our study provides the first evidence for functional brain 
reorganization following skilled aerobic exercise in Parkinsonian rats, and
suggests that SAE compared to NSAE results in enhancement of prefrontal cortex-
and cerebellum-mediated control of motor function.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4402279 [Available on 2016-05-01]
PMID: 25747184  [PubMed - in process]


418. Neurosci Res. 2015 Mar 6. pii: S0168-0102(15)00071-1. doi:
10.1016/j.neures.2015.02.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Inter-limb coupling during diadochokinesis in Parkinson's and Huntington's
disease.

Daneault JF(1), Carignan B(2), Sadikot AF(3), Duval C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cone Laboratory for Research in Neurosurgery, Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Centre de Recherche de l'Institut Universitaire de
Gériatrie de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada. (2)Centre de Recherche de
l'Institut Universitaire de Gériatrie de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada;
Département de Sciences Biologiques, Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal,
Québec, Canada. (3)Cone Laboratory for Research in Neurosurgery, Department of
Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. (4)Centre de Recherche de l'Institut
Universitaire de Gériatrie de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Département des
sciences de l'activité physique, Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal,
Québec, Canada. Electronic address: duval.christian@uqam.ca.

Patients with neurodegenerative diseases often exhibit deficits in bimanual
coordination. One characteristic of bimanual movements is inter-limb coupling. It
is the property of motor performance harmonization between hands during a
bimanual task. The objective of this study was to identify whether spatial and
temporal inter-limb coupling occurred in Parkinson's disease (PD) and
Huntington's disease (HD) patients. Twenty-three PD patients and 15 healthy
controls were tested. Data from 12 choreic HD patients were also taken from a
databank. Participants were asked to perform a unimanual and bimanual rapid
repetitive diadochokinesis task. The difference between hands in mean amplitude
and mean duration of cycles was computed in the unimanual and bimanual tasks for 
each group. Results show that healthy controls exhibited temporal and spatial
inter-limb coupling during the bimanual diadochokinesis task. Conversely, PD and 
HD patients exhibited temporal inter-limb coupling; but failed to exhibit spatial
inter-limb coupling during the bimanual diadochokinesis task. Furthermore, HD
patients exhibited reduced levels of structural coupling compared to controls and
PD patients. These results suggest that alterations in basal
ganglia-thalamo-cortical networks due to PD and HD do not affect temporal
inter-limb coupling. However, common pathophysiological changes related to PD and
HD may cause altered spatial inter-limb coupling during a rapid repetitive
bimanual diadochokinesis task.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25747139  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


419. Clin Transl Imaging. 2015 Feb 1;3(1):57-64.

Imaging Amyloidopathy in Parkinson Disease and Parkinsonian Dementia Syndromes.

Frey KA(1), Petrou M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Radiology and Neurology and the Molecular and Behavioral
Neuroscience Institute, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA.

Dementia arising in patients with Parkinson disease or parkinsonian
neurodegeneration comprises a heterogeneous neuropathology. Clinical labeling of 
patients with both dementia and Parkinson disease is dichotomous, depending on
the temporal development of cognitive impairment and motor parkinsonism. Patients
with dementia arising first (or within the first year of PD) are classified as
dementia with Lewy bodies; patients with PD for more than one year before
cognitive decline are classified as Parkinson disease with dementia. Despite this
differential clinical classification, autopsy studies demonstrate variable
admixtures of cortical synuicleinopathy, Aβ-amyloidopathy and tau neurofibrillary
tangle deposition. There are no routine clinical diagnostic measures that
accurately distinguish the underlying neuropathologies in individual patients. In
the present paper, we review the published literature describing characteristics 
of fibrillary Aβ-amyloid deposition on the basis of PET radiotracer imaging in
patients with Parkinson disease and in parkinsonian dementia syndromes. Although 
individual reports often include only small-to-modest subject numbers, there is
overall suggestion that PD patients have a lower incidence of Aβ-amyloid
deposition than seen amongst elderly normal subjects, and that Parkinson disease 
with dementia patients have a lower incidence of Aβ-amyloid deposition than do
patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. These apparent features contrast the
findings of Aβ-amyloid-PET imaging in normal aging and the development of
Alzheimer disease, where Aβ-amyloid deposition arises asymptomatically and
apparently many years before development of signs or symptoms of dementia. It is 
proposed that focused, prospective studies are needed to further address and
understand the complex role(s) of Aβ-amyloid pathology in Parkinson disease, and 
that this understanding will be critical to the development of targeted
disease-modifying therapy for dementia in PD.

PMCID: PMC4345418 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25745616  [PubMed]


420. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2015 Jan-Mar;18(1):49-59. doi: 10.4103/0972-2327.144311.

Impulse control disorders and related behaviours (ICD-RBs) in Parkinson's disease
patients: Assessment using "Questionnaire for impulsive-compulsive disorders in
Parkinson's disease" (QUIP).

Sharma A(1), Goyal V(1), Behari M(1), Srivastva A(1), Shukla G(1), Vibha D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi,
India.

BACKGROUND: There is limited data on the prevalence of impulse control disorder
and related behaviors (ICD-RBs) in Indian patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD).
In the context of potential genetic and environmental factors affecting the
expression of ICD-RBs, studying other multiethnic populations may bring in-sights
into the mechanisms of these disorders.
OBJECTIVES: To ascertain point prevalence estimate of ICD-RBs in Indian PD
patients, using the validated "Questionnaire for Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders
in Parkinson's disease (QUIP)" and to examine their association with Dopamine
replacement therapy (DRT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a hospital based observational cross-sectional
study. After taking informed consent, patients and their informants (spouse, or
primary caregiver) were made to complete the QUIP, and were instructed to answer 
questions based on behaviors that occurred anytime during PD that lasted at least
four consecutive weeks.
RESULTS: Total of 299 patients participated in the study. At least one ICD-RB was
present in 128 (42.8%), at least one Impulse control disorder (ICD) was present
in 74 (24.75%) and at least one Impulse control related compulsive behaviour
(ICRB) was present in 93 (31.1%) patients. Punding was the most frequent (12.4%) 
followed by hyper sexuality (11.04%), compulsive hobbyism (9.4%), compulsive
shopping (8.4%), compulsive medication use (7.7%), compulsive eating (5.35%),
walkabout (4%) and pathological gambling (3.3%). ≥ 2 ICD-RBs were observed in
15.7% of patients. After multivariate analysis, younger age of onset, being
unmarried were specifically associated with presence of ICD. Longer disease
duration was specifically associated with presence of ICRB. Whereas smoking and
higher dopamine levodopa equivalent daily doses (DA LEDD) were associated with
both presence of ICD and ICRB. Higher LD LEDD was specifically associated with
presence of ICD-RB.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed a relatively higher frequency of ICD-RBs,
probably because of the use of screening instrument and because we combined both 
ICDs and ICRBs. Also high proportion of DA use (81.6%) among our patients might
be responsible. The role of genetic factors that might increase the risk of
developing ICD-RBs in this population needs further exploration.

PMCID: PMC4350214
PMID: 25745311  [PubMed]


421. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2015 Jan-Mar;18(1):33-8. doi: 10.4103/0972-2327.144287.

Neuropsychiatric co-morbidities in non-demented Parkinson's disease.

Rai NK(1), Goyal V(2), Kumar N(3), Shukla G(2), Srivastava AK(2), Singh S(4),
Behari M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal,
Madhya Pradesh, India. (2)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, India. (3)Department of Psychiatry, All India Institute of
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. (4)Department of Neurology, Medanta, Gurgaon,
Haryana, India.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate neuropsychiatric co-morbidities (depression, psychosis and
anxiety) in non-demented patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
BACKGROUND: Non-motor symptoms like neuropsychiatric co-morbidities are common in
Parkinson's disease and may predate motor symptoms. Currently there is scarcity
of data regarding neuropsychiatry manifestations in Indian patients with PD.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study consecutive 126 non-demented patients with
PD (MMSE ≥25) were enrolled. They were assessed using Unified Parkinson's disease
rating scale (UPDRS), Hoehn & Yahr (H&Y) stage, Schwab and England (S&E) scale of
activity of daily life. Mini-international neuropsychiatric interview (MINI) was 
used for diagnosis of depression, psychosis and anxiety. Beck's depression
inventory (BDI), Brief psychiatric rating scale (BSRS) and Hamilton rating scale 
for anxiety (HAM-A) scales were used for assessment of severity of depression,
psychosis and anxiety respectively.
RESULTS: Mean age and duration of disease was 57.9 ± 10.9 years and 7.3 ± 3.6
years respectively. At least one of the neuropsychiatric co-morbidity was present
in 64% patients. Depression, suicidal risk, psychosis and anxiety were present in
43.7%, 31%, 23.8% and 35.7% respectively. Visual hallucinations (20.6%) were most
frequent, followed by tactile (13.5%), auditory (7.2%) and olfactory
hallucinations (1.6%). Patients with depression had higher motor disability
(UPDRS-motor score 33.1 ± 14.0 vs 27.3 ± 13.3; and UPDRS-total 50.7 ± 21.8 vs
41.0 ± 20.3, all p values <0.05). Patients with psychosis were older (63.6 ± 8.0 
years vs 56.1 ± 11.1 years, p < 0.05) and had longer duration of illness (8.6 ±
3.4 years vs 6.9 ± 3.5, p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: About two third patients with Parkinson's disease have associated
neuropsychiatric co-morbidities. Depression was more frequent in patients with
higher disability and psychosis with longer duration of disease and older age.
These co-morbidities need to be addressed during management of patients with PD.

PMCID: PMC4350211
PMID: 25745308  [PubMed]


422. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Apr 10;459(3):361-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.02.069. Epub 2015 Mar 3.

A newly discovered neurotoxin ADTIQ associated with hyperglycemia and Parkinson's
disease.

Xie B(1), Lin F(2), Ullah K(3), Peng L(4), Ding W(5), Dai R(6), Qing H(7), Deng
Y(8).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun
Nandajie, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: xiebingjie19860128@126.com. (2)School of Life Science,
Beijing Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun Nandajie, Haidian District,
Beijing 100081, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
franklinbit@163.com. (3)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, 
No. 5 Zhongguancun Nandajie, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, People's Republic 
of China. Electronic address: drkaleemullah@gmail.com. (4)School of Life Science,
Beijing Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun Nandajie, Haidian District,
Beijing 100081, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: play1220@126.com.
(5)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun
Nandajie, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: whitenoel@sina.com. (6)School of Life Science, Beijing
Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun Nandajie, Haidian District, Beijing
100081, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: dairongji@bit.edu.cn.
(7)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun
Nandajie, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: hongq16@gmail.com. (8)School of Life Science, Beijing
Institute of Technology, No. 5 Zhongguancun Nandajie, Haidian District, Beijing
100081, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: deng@bit.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes is associated with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease 
(PD). Number of studies have suggested that methylglyoxal (MGO) induced by
diabetes is related to PD. However, very little is known about its molecular
mechanism. On other hand, 1-acetyl-6, 7- dihydroxyl-1, 2, 3, 4-
Tetrahydroisoquinoline(ADTIQ) is a dopamine (DA)-derived tetrahydroisoquinoline
(TIQ), a novel endogenous neurotoxins, which was first discovered in frozen
Parkinson's disease human brain tissue. While ADTIQ precursor methylglyoxal was
also found in diabetic patients related to the glucose metabolism and diabetic
patients.
METHODS: LC-MS/MS, 1H NMR and infrared spectroscopy identified the structure of
ADTIQ. The Annexin V-FITC/PI, MTT and western blot analysis were used to measure 
the neurotoxicity of ADTIQ. The levels of ADTIQ and methylglyoxal were detected
by LC-MS/MS.
RESULTS: Here we report the chemical synthesis of ADTIQ, demonstrate its
biosynthesis in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line and investigate its role in the
pathogenesis of PD. In addition, a significant increase in the level of ADTIQ was
detected in the brains of transgenic mice expressing mutant forms (A53T or A30P) 
of α-synuclein. ADTIQ also reduced the cell viability and induced mitochondrial
apoptosis in dopaminergic cells, suggesting that ADTIQ acts as an endogenous
neurotoxin and potentially involved in the pathogenesis of PD. Methylglyoxal, a
major byproduct of glucose metabolism and abnormalities in glucose metabolism
could influence the levels of ADTIQ. Consistent with the hypothesis, increased
levels of ADTIQ and methylglyoxal were detected in the striatum of diabetic rats 
and SH-SY5Y cells cultured in the presence of high glucose concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased levels of ADTIQ could be related with Hyperglycemia and
death of dopaminergic neurons.
GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: The increased levels of ADTIQ could be a reason of dopamine
neuron dysfunction in diabetes. Therefore, ADTIQ may play a key role in
increasing the risk for PD in patients with diabetes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25744031  [PubMed - in process]


423. Geriatr Nurs. 2015 Mar 2. pii: S0197-4572(15)00051-8. doi:
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2015.02.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Caregiver tele-support group for Parkinson's disease: A pilot study.

Shah SP(1), Glenn GL(2), Hummel EM(2), Hamilton JM(3), Martine RR(2), Duda JE(1),
Wilkinson JR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Research, Education and Clinical Center, Philadelphia VA
Medical Center, 3900 Woodland Ave, Mail Stop #127, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA;
Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, 
300 S. 9th Street, 3rd Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. (2)Parkinson's Disease
Research, Education and Clinical Center, Philadelphia VA Medical Center, 3900
Woodland Ave, Mail Stop #127, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. (3)Partners on the
Path, LLC, 205 Plymouth Road, Gwynedd Valley, PA 19437, USA. (4)Parkinson's
Disease Research, Education and Clinical Center, Philadelphia VA Medical Center, 
3900 Woodland Ave, Mail Stop #127, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Department of
Neurology, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, 300 S. 9th
Street, 3rd Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address:
jayne.wilkinson@va.gov.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a disabling neurodegenerative disease
that typically affects the geriatric population and requires a caregiver.
Although caregiver burden reduces quality of life of the caregiver, support
groups for caregivers have not been studied. Offering a tele-support group to PD 
caregivers would be an innovative approach to extending a novel resource.
METHODS: A single-center pilot study was conducted, enrolling caregivers in an
8-week tele-support group program. Mood state and caregiver burden were assessed 
at baseline and conclusion of the program using self-report questionnaires.
Qualitative feedback was obtained at the conclusion of the program.
RESULTS: Seven female spouse caregivers enrolled; 86% completed the program.
Although no statistically significant changes in questionnaire scores were found,
the mean Geriatric Depression Scale decreased from 4.2 to 3 and qualitative
feedback was universally positive.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of tele-support groups for PD caregivers is a feasible and
innovative resource to address caregiver burden.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25744558  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


424. Geriatr Nurs. 2015 Mar 2. pii: S0197-4572(15)00048-8. doi:
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2015.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Caregiver-identified needs and barriers to care in Parkinson's disease.

Lageman SK(1), Mickens MN(2), Cash TV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Parkinson's and Movement Disorders Center, Virginia
Commonwealth University, P.O. Box 980539, Richmond, VA 23298-0539, USA.
Electronic address: sklageman@vcu.edu. (2)Department of Psychology, Virginia
Commonwealth University, P.O. Box 842018, Richmond, VA 23284-2018, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Parkinson's and Movement Disorders Center, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, P.O. Box 980539, Richmond, VA 23298-0539, USA.

Perceptions of service needs and barriers to care among caregivers of individuals
with Parkinson's disease have not been well explored. The purpose of this study
was to assess caregiver perceptions of their own and patients' medical and
supportive service needs. An online and paper survey was disseminated to a sample
of caregivers (n = 66) of individuals with Parkinson's disease. Although
caregivers reported positive quality of life and adjustment to caregiving, nearly
half of the sample endorsed feeling stressed about caregiving. Caregivers
reported that services for symptom management, coping with changes in lifestyle, 
future planning, relationships, and cognition, and wellness strategies were most 
needed. Reported barriers to patients accessing care included limited service
availability and a lack of insurance coverage for services. These findings
suggest a need to improve access to services for patients and increased efforts
to promote caregiver wellness at movement disorder specialty clinics.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25744557  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


425. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):461-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.007. Epub 2015 Feb 18.

Quality of sleep in young onset Parkinson's disease: Any difference from older
onset Parkinson's disease.

Mahale R(1), Yadav R(2), Pal PK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, M.S Ramaiah Medical College and Hospital, Bangalore
560054, Karnataka, India. (2)Department of Neurology, National Institute of
Mental Health & Neurosciences, Hosur Road, Bangalore 560029, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences, 
Hosur Road, Bangalore 560029, Karnataka, India. Electronic address:
palpramod@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Sleep disorders occur commonly in Parkinson's disease and are often
under-recognized and under treated in clinical practice.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the quality of sleep in patients with Young onset
Parkinson's disease (YOPD) and to note whether there is any difference in quality
of sleep from those patients with older onset Parkinson's disease (OOPD).
METHODS: One hundred and fifty six patients with Parkinson's disease (YOPD-51,
OOPD-105) were clinically examined and quality of sleep was determined using
Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI), Parkinson's disease Sleep Scale (PDSS) and
Epworth Sleep Scale (ESS). Other scales included Uniﬁed Parkinson's Disease
Rating Scale -part III (UPDRS-III), Hoehn & Yahr Stage, Mini Mental Status
Examination, Hamilton anxiety rating scale and Hamilton depression rating scale.
RESULTS: The frequency of insomnia was higher in OOPD (55.2%) as compared to YOPD
(27.5%) group (p = 0.001). The frequency of nightmares was lower in YOPD (7.8%)
when compared to OOPD (24.8%) group (p = 0.012). The mean hours of actual sleep
per night were higher in YOPD patients. Global PSQI score was better in YOPD
indicating good overall sleep quality in YOPD patients. The total ESS score was
significantly lower in YOPD (p = 0.019). The total PDSS score was significantly
better in YOPD patients (p = 0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with YOPD had an overall better quality of sleep with
lesser incidence of insomnia, nightmares, daytime sleepiness and restlessness
during sleep.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25744440  [PubMed - in process]


426. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 15;351(1-2):200-1. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.02.033. Epub
2015 Feb 26.

Invasive procedures in Parkinson's disease: Let's be aware we are dealing with
prion-like proteins.

Cersosimo MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Unit, Hospital de Clinicas,
University of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Electronic address: mgcersosimo@gmail.com.

PMID: 25743225  [PubMed - in process]


427. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2015 Mar 5. [Epub ahead of print]

We Know Now: Mavridis Atrophy Is Associated with Cognitive Impairment in
Parkinson Disease.

Mavridis IN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery"K.A.T.-National Rehabilitation Center" General
Hospital of AtticaAthens, Greece.

PMID: 25742989  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


428. Ann Thorac Surg. 2015 Mar;99(3):753-4. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2015.01.013.

50th anniversary landmark commentary on Sealy WC, Hattler BG Jr, Blumenschein SD,
Cobb FR. Surgical treatment of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Ann Thorac Surg
1969;8:1-11.

Cox JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, 1600 Glenarm Place, Apt 3002,
Denver, CO 80202. Electronic address: jamescoxmd@aol.com.

PMID: 25742810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2015 Feb;73(2):115-8. doi: 10.1590/0004-282X20140212.

Piribedil and pathological gambling in six parkinsonian patients.

Micheli FE(1), Giugni JC(1), Espinosa ME(1), Calvo DS(1), Raina GB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Enfermedades y Trastornos de Movimiento de Parkinson, Hospital de
Clínicas "José de San Martín", Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

Impulse control disorders (ICD) in Parkinson's disease (PD) have attracted
increasing interest. They are characterized by the inability to control the
impulse to perform an act that can be detrimental to them or to others. Although 
dopamine agonists (DA), as a group, have been associated with impulse control
disorders (ICD), piribedil has rarely been reported to cause them.METHOD: Case
reports of six parkinsonian patients on piribedil presenting pathological
gambling (PG).
RESULTS: All of the patients presented ICD associated with piribedil use. Two of 
them received this medication as first treatment and four of them who had
developed ICDs secondary to other DA that reappeared with piribedil.
CONCLUSION: Despite piribedil is commercially available in only a few countries, 
it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of PG in patients with PD.

PMID: 25742580  [PubMed - in process]


430. J Neurol Phys Ther. 2015 Apr;39(2):93-4. doi: 10.1097/NPT.0000000000000081.

Exercise for persons with Parkinson disease: important considerations of
medication, assessment, and training.

Wilhelm JL(1), King LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Services (J.L.W.), Oregon Health & Science
University, Portland, Oregon; and Department of Neurology (L.A.K.), Oregon Health
& Science University, Portland, Oregon.

Comment on
    J Neurol Phys Ther. 2015 Apr;39(2):85-92.

PMID: 25742376  [PubMed - in process]


431. J Neurol Phys Ther. 2015 Apr;39(2):85-92. doi: 10.1097/NPT.0000000000000086.

Exercise and medication effects on persons with Parkinson disease across the
domains of disability: a randomized clinical trial.

Dibble LE(1), Foreman KB, Addison O, Marcus RL, LaStayo PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy (L.E.D., K.B.F., R.L.M., P.C.L.), University of
Utah, Salt Lake City; and Department of Medicine (O.A.), Division of Gerontology 
and Geriatric Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, and Veterans
Affairs Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center and Research
Development Service, Baltimore.

Comment in
    J Neurol Phys Ther. 2015 Apr;39(2):93-4.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Hypokinesia and bradykinesia as movement deficits of
Parkinson disease are thought to be mediated by both basal ganglia dysfunction
and a loss of muscle mass and strength commensurate with aging and decreased
levels of physical activity. For these reasons, we sought to utilize resistance
training as a means to increase muscle force and minimize hypokinesia and
bradykinesia in persons with Parkinson disease and examine the effects of
exercise and medication on Body Structure and Function (muscle force production
and muscle cross-sectional area), Activity (mobility), and Participation (Health 
Status) outcomes.
METHODS: Forty-two participants were enrolled in a 12-week randomized clinical
trial that compared 2 active exercise interventions: a standard care control
group (Active Control) and an experimental group that underwent Resistance
Exercise via Negative Eccentric Work (RENEW).
RESULTS: Participants in both groups improved in muscle force production and
mobility as a result of exercise and medication (P < 0.02). There were no
significant interaction or between-group differences and no significant changes
in muscle cross-sectional area or health status were observed. Effect sizes for
exercise and medication combined exceeded the effect sizes of either intervention
in isolation.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results point to the
complementary effects of exercise and medication on the Body Structure and
Function and Activity outcomes but little effect on Participation outcomes.Video 
Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see Supplemental Digital
Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A92).

PMCID: PMC4366306 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25742370  [PubMed - in process]


432. J Phys Chem B. 2015 Mar 17. [Epub ahead of print]

Physical Models for Charge Transfer at Single Crystal Oxide Semiconductor
Surfaces as Revealed by the Doping Density Dependence of the Collection
Efficiency of Dye Sensitized Photocurrents.

Watkins KJ(1), Parkinson BA(1), Spitler MT(2).

Author information: 
(1)†Department of Chemistry and School of Energy Resources, University of
Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming 82071, United States. (2)‡Office of Science, SC 22.13, 
Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585, United States.

The doping density dependence of photocurrents has been experimentally measured
at single crystal rutile TiO2 electrodes sensitized with the N3 chromophore and a
trimethine dye. As the doping density of the electrodes was varied from 10(15) to
10(20) cm(-3), three different regimes of behavior were observed for the
magnitude and shape of the dye sensitized current-voltage curves. Low-doped
crystals produced current-voltage curves with a slow rise of photocurrent with
potential. At intermediate doping levels, Schottky barrier behavior was observed 
producing a photocurrent plateau at electrode bias in the depletion region. At
highly doped electrodes, tunneling currents played a significant role especially 
in the recombination processes. These different forms of the current-voltage
curves could be fit to an Onsager-based model for charge collection at a
semiconductor electrode. The fitting revealed the role of the various physical
parameters that govern photoinduced charge collection in sensitized systems.

PMID: 25742318  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


433. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2015 Mar 3. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of Treadmill Training with Load on Gait in Parkinson Disease: A
Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial.

Trigueiro LC(1), Gama GL, Simão CR, Sousa AV, Godeiro Júnior CO, Lindquist AR.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Physical Therapy, Federal University of Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, Brazil (LCLT, CRS, AVCS, ARRL); Institute of Physical Activity and 
Sport Sciences, Cruzeiro do Sul University, São Paulo, Brazil (GLG); and
Department of Integrated Medicine, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, Brazil (COGJ).

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the effects of 3% of body weight
loads (0%, 5%, and 10%) on treadmill gait training in subjects with Parkinson
disease.
DESIGN: This study used a randomized controlled single-blind trial.
RESULTS: Spatiotemporal variables demonstrated significant intragroup alterations
in all three groups at pretraining and posttraining, with an increase in speed
(m/sec; F = 4.73, P = 0.04), stride length (m; F = 12.00, P = 0.002), and step
length (m; F = 16.16, P = 0.001) and a decrease in the double-stance phase (%; F 
= 6.59, P = 0.02) and stance phase (%; F = 4.77, P = 0.04). Intergroup
pretraining and posttraining did not exhibit significant differences (F < 2.18, P
> 0.14). Angular variables showed significant intragroup alterations, with an
increase in knee range of motion (F = 5.18, P = 0.03), and intergroup comparison 
revealed no significant changes (F < 1.87, P > 0.17).
CONCLUSIONS: Posttraining improvements in speed, stride length, step length,
double-stance, stance phase, and knee range of motion were observed in all
groups, where no load (0%, 5%, or 10%) had any significant effect, suggesting
that the influence of load did not make one experimental condition better than
another. All participants benefitted from treadmill gait training, irrespective
of the use of load.

PMID: 25741619  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


434. J Neurosci. 2015 Mar 4;35(9):4052-64. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3611-14.2015.

Role of the indirect pathway of the basal ganglia in perceptual decision making.

Wei W(1), Rubin JE(2), Wang XJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003,
Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520. (2)Department of Mathematics
and Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15260, and. (3)Center for Neural Science, New York
University, New York, New York 10003, Department of Neurobiology and Kavli
Institute for Neuroscience, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, NYU-ECNU Institute of Brain and Cognitive Science, NYU
Shanghai, Shanghai, China 200122 xjwang@nyu.edu.

The basal ganglia (BG) play an important role in motor control, reinforcement
learning, and perceptual decision making. Modeling and experimental evidence
suggest that, in a speed-accuracy tradeoff, the corticostriatal pathway can
adaptively adjust a decision threshold (the amount of information needed to make 
a choice). In this study, we go beyond the focus of previous works on the direct 
and hyperdirect pathways to examine the contribution of the indirect pathway of
the BG system to decision making in a biophysically based spiking network model. 
We find that the mechanism of adjusting the decision threshold by plasticity of
the corticostriatal connections is effective, provided that the indirect pathway 
counterbalances the direct pathway in their projections to the output nucleus.
Furthermore, in our model, changes within basal ganglia connections similar to
those that arise in parkinsonism give rise to strong beta oscillations.
Specifically, beta oscillations are produced by an abnormal enhancement of the
interactions between the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the external segment of
globus pallidus (GPe) in the indirect pathway, with an oscillation frequency that
depends on the excitatory cortical input to the STN and the inhibitory input to
the GPe from the striatum. In a parkinsonian state characterized by pronounced
beta oscillations, the mean reaction time and range of threshold variation (a
measure of behavioral flexibility) are significantly reduced compared with the
normal state. Our work thus reveals a specific circuit mechanism for impairments 
of perceptual decision making associated with Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/354052-13$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4348195 [Available on 2015-09-04]
PMID: 25740532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Neurosci. 2015 Mar 4;35(9):4015-24. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3244-14.2015.

Reward-dependent modulation of movement variability.

Pekny SE(1), Izawa J(2), Shadmehr R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Computational Motor Control, Department of Biomedical
Engineering, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, and
sep205@gmail.com. (2)Laboratory for Computational Motor Control, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, and Faculty of Engineering, Information and Systems, University of
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8573, Japan. (3)Laboratory for Computational Motor Control, 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, and.

Movement variability is often considered an unwanted byproduct of a noisy nervous
system. However, variability can signal a form of implicit exploration,
indicating that the nervous system is intentionally varying the motor commands in
search of actions that yield the greatest success. Here, we investigated the role
of the human basal ganglia in controlling reward-dependent motor variability as
measured by trial-to-trial changes in performance during a reaching task. We
designed an experiment in which the only performance feedback was success or
failure and quantified how reach variability was modulated as a function of the
probability of reward. In healthy controls, reach variability increased as the
probability of reward decreased. Control of variability depended on the history
of past rewards, with the largest trial-to-trial changes occurring immediately
after an unrewarded trial. In contrast, in participants with Parkinson's disease,
a known example of basal ganglia dysfunction, reward was a poor modulator of
variability; that is, the patients showed an impaired ability to increase
variability in response to decreases in the probability of reward. This was
despite the fact that, after rewarded trials, reach variability in the patients
was comparable to healthy controls. In summary, we found that movement
variability is partially a form of exploration driven by the recent history of
rewards. When the function of the human basal ganglia is compromised, the
reward-dependent control of movement variability is impaired, particularly
affecting the ability to increase variability after unsuccessful outcomes.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/354015-10$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4348194 [Available on 2015-09-04]
PMID: 25740529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Neurosci. 2015 Mar 4;35(9):3734-46. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3528-14.2015.

Nicotinic receptor subtype-selective circuit patterns in the subthalamic nucleus.

Xiao C(1), Miwa JM(2), Henderson BJ(1), Wang Y(1), Deshpande P(1), McKinney
SL(1), Lester HA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, and. (2)Division of Biology and
Biological Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 
91125, and Department of Biological Sciences, Lehigh University, Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania 18015. (3)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, and lester@caltech.edu.

The glutamatergic subthalamic nucleus (STN) exerts control over motor output
through nuclei of the basal ganglia. High-frequency electrical stimuli in the STN
effectively alleviate motor symptoms in movement disorders, and cholinergic
stimulation boosts this effect. To gain knowledge about the mechanisms of
cholinergic modulation in the STN, we studied cellular and circuit aspects of
nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in mouse STN. We discovered two
largely divergent microcircuits in the STN; these are regulated in part by either
α4β2 or α7 nAChRs. STN neurons containing α4β2 nAChRs (α4β2 neurons) received
more glutamatergic inputs, and preferentially innervated GABAergic neurons in the
substantia nigra pars reticulata. In contrast, STN neurons containing α7 nAChRs
(α7 neurons) received more GABAergic inputs, and preferentially innervated
dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Interestingly, local 
electrical stimuli excited a majority (79%) of α4β2 neurons but exerted strong
inhibition in 58% of α7 neurons, indicating an additional diversity of STN
neurons: responses to electrical stimulation. Chronic exposure to nicotine
selectively affects α4β2 nAChRs in STN: this treatment increased the number of
α4β2 neurons, upregulated α4-containing nAChR number and sensitivity, and
enhanced the basal firing rate of α4β2 neurons both ex vivo and in vivo. Thus,
chronic nicotine enhances the function of the microcircuit involving α4β2 nAChRs.
This indicates chronic exposure to nicotinic agonist as a potential
pharmacological intervention to alter selectively the balance between these two
microcircuits, and may provide a means to inhibit substantia nigra dopaminergic
neurons.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/353734-13$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4348180 [Available on 2015-09-04]
PMID: 25740504  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Eur J Neurol. 2015 Jun;22(6):954-9. doi: 10.1111/ene.12688. Epub 2015 Mar 5.

Increased bilirubin levels in de novo Parkinson's disease.

Moccia M(1), Picillo M, Erro R, Longo K, Amboni M, Santangelo G, Palladino R,
Allocca R, Caporale O, Triassi M, Pellecchia MT, Barone P, Vitale C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive Science and Odontostomatology,
Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Oxidative stress is a central pathogenic mechanism of
Parkinson's disease (PD), and the heme oxygenase (HO) bilirubin pathway is one of
the main mammalian antioxidative defences. Indeed, there is growing evidence of
HO-bilirubin upregulation from early phases of PD. Our aim was to investigate
bilirubin as a possible biomarker of PD diagnosis and progression.
METHODS: A cross-sectional case-control study was performed to evaluate
differences in bilirubin levels between newly diagnosed, drug-naïve PD subjects
and controls. Afterwards, PD subjects were included in a 2-year longitudinal
study to evaluate disease progression in relation to baseline bilirubin levels.
RESULTS: Seventy-five de novo PD subjects were selected and matched with 75
controls by propensity score. Analysis of variance showed higher bilirubin levels
in PD patients compared with controls (P < 0.001). Linear regression analysis
failed to show a relationship between bilirubin and Unified Parkinson's Disease
Rating Scale (UPDRS) part III (P = 0.283) at baseline evaluation. At 2-year
follow-up, indirect relationships between bilirubin levels and UPDRS part III
(P = 0.028) and between bilirubin levels and levodopa-equivalent daily dosage
(P = 0.012) were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Parkinson's disease subjects showed higher levels of bilirubin
compared with controls. Bilirubin increase might be due to HO overexpression as a
compensatory response to oxidative stress occurring from early stages of PD.

© 2015 EAN.

PMID: 25740378  [PubMed - in process]


438. Free Radic Res. 2015 Mar 5:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

LC/MS analysis of cardiolipins in substantia nigra and plasma of rotenone-treated
rats: Implication for mitochondrial dysfunction in Parkinson's disease.

Tyurina YY(1), Polimova AM, Maciel E, Tyurin VA, Kapralova VI, Winnica DE,
Vikulina AS, Domingues MR, McCoy J, Sanders LH, Bayır H, Greenamyre JT, Kagan VE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Free Radical and Antioxidant Health, University of Pittsburgh ,
Pittsburgh , USA.

Exposure to rotenone in vivo results in selective degeneration of dopaminergic
neurons and development of neuropathologic features of Parkinson's disease (PD). 
As rotenone acts as an inhibitor of mitochondrial respiratory complex I, we
employed oxidative lipidomics to assess oxidative metabolism of a
mitochondria-specific phospholipid, cardiolipin (CL), in substantia nigra (SN) of
exposed animals. We found a significant reduction in oxidizable polyunsaturated
fatty acid (PUFA)-containing CL molecular species. We further revealed increased 
contents of mono-oxygenated CL species at late stages of the exposure. Notably,
linoleic acid in sn-1 position was the major oxidation substrate yielding its
mono-hydroxy- and epoxy-derivatives whereas more readily "oxidizable" fatty acid 
residues (arachidonic and docosahexaenoic acids) remained non-oxidized. Elevated 
levels of PUFA CLs were detected in plasma of rats exposed to rotenone.
Characterization of oxidatively modified CL molecular species in SN and detection
of PUFA-containing CL species in plasma may contribute to better understanding of
the PD pathogenesis and lead to the development of new biomarkers of
mitochondrial dysfunction associated with this disease.

PMID: 25740198  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


439. Gac Med Mex. 2015 Jan-Feb;151(1):110-8.

[Genetic factors associated with dementia in parkinson's disease (PD)].

[Article in Spanish]

Romo-Gutiérrez D(1), Yescas P(2), López-López M(3), Boll MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Investigación Clínica, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y
Neurocirugía Manuel Velasco Suárez, México, D.F. (2)Departamento de Neurogenética
y Biología Molecular, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía Manuel
Velasco Suárez, México, D.F. (3)Departamento de Sistemas Biológicos, Universidad 
Autónoma Metropolitana-Xochimilco, México, D.F.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor
and non-motor symptoms. Dementia is a frequent complication of idiopathic
Parkinsonism or PD, usually occurring later in the protracted course of the
illness. Some risk factors to develop dementia in PD are aging, severe
Parkinson´s symptoms, rigid-akinetic form, hallucinations, and mild cognitive
impairment documented at the first examinations. It is not yet clear if some
genetic factors are either risk or protector for progression to dementia. In a
review of the literature, we found that mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene are
the most responsible for developing dementia, either from PARK1 or 4 mutations.
GBA (glucocerebrosidase) is another accountable factor. However, the vast
majority of patients suffer from non-Mendelian or complex forms of PD, which are 
likely caused by the combined effects of genetic and environmental factors. There
is not until now a clear relation between some polymorphisms in candidate genes
and cognitive deterioration, as many studies have not clearly identified this
phenotype.

PMID: 25739491  [PubMed - in process]


440. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 4;10(3):e0119168. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119168.
eCollection 2015.

Visualizing peripheral nerve regeneration by whole mount staining.

Dun XP(1), Parkinson DB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Plymouth University Peninsula Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, Plymouth,
Devon, United Kingdom; Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xian-Ning
City, Hubei, China. (2)Plymouth University Peninsula Schools of Medicine and
Dentistry, Plymouth, Devon, United Kingdom.

Peripheral nerve trauma triggers a well characterised sequence of events both
proximal and distal to the site of injury. Axons distal to the injury degenerate,
Schwann cells convert to a repair supportive phenotype and macrophages enter the 
nerve to clear myelin and axonal debris. Following these events, axons must
regrow through the distal part of the nerve, re-innervate and finally are
re-myelinated by Schwann cells. For nerve crush injuries (axonotmesis), in which 
the integrity of the nerve is maintained, repair may be relatively effective
whereas for nerve transection (neurotmesis) repair will likely be very poor as
few axons may be able to cross between the two parts of the severed nerve, across
the newly generated nerve bridge, to enter the distal stump and regenerate.
Analysing axon growth and the cell-cell interactions that occur following both
nerve crush and cut injuries has largely been carried out by staining sections of
nerve tissue, but this has the obvious disadvantage that it is not possible to
follow the paths of regenerating axons in three dimensions within the nerve trunk
or nerve bridge. To try and solve this problem, we describe the development and
use of a novel whole mount staining protocol that allows the analysis of axonal
regeneration, Schwann cell-axon interaction and re-vascularisation of the
repairing nerve following nerve cut and crush injuries.

PMCID: PMC4349735
PMID: 25738874  [PubMed - in process]


441. Case Rep Dent. 2015;2015:352878. doi: 10.1155/2015/352878. Epub 2015 Feb 8.

Clinical strategies for complete denture rehabilitation in a patient with
Parkinson disease and reduced neuromuscular control.

Haralur SB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, College of Dentistry, King Khalid University,
Abha 61417, Saudi Arabia.

The dentist has a large role in geriatric health care for the ever increasing
elder population with associated physical and neurological disorders. The
Parkinson disease is progressive neurological disorder with resting tremor,
bradykinesia, akinesia, and postural instability. The psychological components of
disease include depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficiency. Poor oral hygiene,
increased susceptibility for dental caries, and periodontal diseases predispose
them to early edentulism. The number of Parkinson affected patients visiting
dental clinic seeking complete denture is growing. This case report explains the 
steps involved in the complete denture rehabilitation of Parkinson patient. The
effective prosthesis will help in alleviating functional, aesthetic, and
psychological disabilities of the patient.

PMCID: PMC4337048
PMID: 25737785  [PubMed]


442. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):431-443. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.010. Epub 2015 Feb 20.

Biomarkers of cognitive decline in Parkinson's disease.

Lin CH(1), Wu RM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Taiwan University Hospital, College of
Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei 100, Taiwan. (2)Department of
Neurology, National Taiwan University Hospital, College of Medicine, National
Taiwan University, Taipei 100, Taiwan. Electronic address: robinwu@ntu.edu.tw.

Cognitive impairment is a frequent and devastating non-motor symptom of
Parkinson's disease (PD). Impaired cognition has a major impact on either quality
of life or mortality in patients with PD. Notably, the rate of cognitive decline 
and pattern of early cognitive deficits in PD are highly variable between
individuals. Given that the underlying mechanisms of cognitive decline or
dementia associated with PD remain unclear, there is currently no mechanism-based
treatment available. Identification of biological markers, including
neuroimaging, biofluids and common genetic variants, that account for the
heterogeneity of PD related cognitive decline could provide important insights
into the pathological processes that underlie cognitive impairment in PD. These
combined biomarker approaches will enable early diagnosis and provide indicators 
of cognitive progression in PD patients. This review summarizes recent advances
in the development of biomarkers for cognitive impairments in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25737398  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


443. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):449-54. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.017. Epub 2015 Feb 17.

Measuring the burden and mortality of hospitalisation in Parkinson's disease: A
cross-sectional analysis of the English Hospital Episodes Statistics database
2009-2013.

Low V(1), Ben-Shlomo Y(2), Coward E(1), Fletcher S(1), Walker R(3), Clarke CE(4).

Author information: 
(1)UCB Pharma Ltd, 208 Bath Road, Slough SL1 3WE, UK. (2)School of Social and
Community Medicine, University of Bristol, 39 Whatley Road, Bristol BS8 2PS, UK. 
(3)Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, North Tyneside General Hospital, 
Rake Lane, North Shields, Tyne and Wear NE29 8NH, UK; Institute of Health and
Society, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU,
UK. (4)School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medicine and
Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK;
Department of Neurology, Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust, City
Hospital, Birmingham B18 7QH, UK. Electronic address: carlclarke@nhs.net.

BACKGROUND: Patients with Parkinson's disease have higher hospital admission
rates than the general population. We examined the reasons for admission, length 
of stay, costs, and in-hospital mortality in a national sample of Parkinson's
disease patients.
METHODS: We used hospital admission data from the English Hospital Episodes
Statistics database (2009-2013). Patients with Parkinson's disease or Parkinson's
disease dementia and aged over 35 years were compared to all other admissions,
excluding the above, with the same age criteria. We examined reasons for
admissions (ICD-10), length of stay and in-hospital mortality. We used indirect
standardisation and Poisson modelling to derive proportional ratios adjusting for
age group and sex.
RESULTS: There were 324,055 Parkinson's disease admissions in 182,859 patients
over 4 years which included 232,905 non-elective admissions (72%). This resulted 
in expenditure of £907 million (£777 million for non-elective admissions). The
main reasons for admission were pneumonia (13.5%), motor decline (9.4%), urinary 
tract infection (9.2%), and hip fractures (4.3%). These conditions occurred 1.5
to 2.6 times more frequently in patients than controls. Patients with Parkinson's
disease were almost twice as likely to stay in hospital for more than 3 months
(ratio 1.90, 95% CI 1.83, 1.97) and even more likely die in hospital (ratio 2.46,
95% CI 2.42, 2.49).
CONCLUSIONS: Parkinson's disease patients in England have higher rates of
emergency admissions with longer hospital stays, higher costs and in-hospital
mortality. Urgent attention should be given to developing cost-effective
interventions to reduce the burden of hospitalisation for patients, carers and
healthcare systems.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25737205  [PubMed - in process]


444. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26170. [Epub ahead of print]

Cognitive performance and neuropsychiatric symptoms in early, untreated
Parkinson's disease.

Weintraub D(1), Simuni T, Caspell-Garcia C, Coffey C, Lasch S, Siderowf A,
Aarsland D, Barone P, Burn D, Chahine LM, Eberling J, Espay AJ, Foster ED,
Leverenz JB, Litvan I, Richard I, Troyer MD, Hawkins KA; and the Parkinson's
Progression Markers Initiative.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA; Philadelphia
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

This study was undertaken to determine the prevalence and correlates of cognitive
impairment (CI) and neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in early, untreated patients 
with Parkinson's disease (PD). Both CI and NPS are common in PD and impact
disease course and quality of life. However, limited knowledge is available about
cognitive abilities and NPS. Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) is
a multi-site study of early, untreated PD patients and healthy controls (HCs),
the latter with normal cognition. At baseline, participants were assessed with a 
neuropsychological battery and for symptoms of depression, anxiety, impulse
control disorders (ICDs), psychosis, and apathy. Baseline data of 423 PD patients
and 196 HCs yielded no between-group differences in demographic characteristics. 
Twenty-two percent of PD patients met the PD-recommended screening cutoff for CI 
on the Montral Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), but only 9% met detailed
neuropsychological testing criteria for mild cognitive impairment (MCI)-level
impairment. The PD patients were more depressed than HCs (P < 0.001), with twice 
as many (14% vs. 7%) meeting criteria for clinically significant depressive
symptoms. The PD patients also experienced more anxiety (P < 0.001) and apathy
(P < 0.001) than HCs. Psychosis was uncommon in PD (3%), and no between-group
difference was seen in ICD symptoms (P = 0.51). Approximately 10% of PD patients 
in the early, untreated disease state met traditional criteria of CI, which is a 
lower frequency compared with previous studies. Multiple dopaminergic-dependent
NPS are also more common in these patients compared with the general population, 
but others associated with dopamine replacement therapy are not or are rare.
Future analyses of this cohort will examine biological predictors and the course 
of CI and NPS. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25737166  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


445. Biotechnol Prog. 2015 Mar 3. doi: 10.1002/btpr.2071. [Epub ahead of print]

Engineering superactive granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor
transferrin fusion proteins as orally-delivered candidate agents for treating
neurodegenerative disease.

Heinzelman P(1), Priebe MC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Chemical, Biological & Materials Engineering, University of Oklahoma,
Norman, Oklahoma, 73019.

Intravenously injected granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) 
has shown efficacy in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Parkinson's Disease (PD)
animal studies and is undergoing clinical evaluation. The likely need for dosing 
of GM-CSF to patients over months or years motivates pursuit of avenues for
delivering GM-CSF to circulation via oral administration. Flow cytometric
screening of 37 yeast-displayed GM-CSF saturation mutant libraries revealed
residues P12, H15, R23, R24, and K72 as key determinants of GM-CSF's CD116 and
CD131 GM-CSF receptor (GM-CSFR) subunit binding affinity. Screening combinatorial
GM-CSF libraries mutated at positions P12, H15, and R23 yielded variants with
increased affinities toward both CD116 and CD131. Genetic fusion of GM-CSF to
human transferrin (Trf), a strategy that enables oral delivery of other
biopharmaceuticals in animals, yielded bioactive wild type and variant cytokines 
upon secretion from cultured Human Embryonic Kidney cells. Surface plasmon
resonance (SPR) measurements showed that all evaluated variants possess decreases
in CD116 and CD131 binding KD values of up to 2.5-fold relative to wild type.
Improved affinity led to increased in vitro bioactivity; the most bioactive
variant, P12D/H15L/R23L, had a leukocyte proliferation assay EC50 value 3.5-fold 
lower than the wild type GM-CSF/Trf fusion. These outcomes are important first
steps toward our goal of developing GM-CSF/Trf fusions as orally available AD and
PD therapeutics. © 2015 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol.
Prog., 2015.

© 2015 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

PMID: 25737095  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


446. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):733-5. doi: 10.1002/mds.26166. Epub 2015 Mar 4.

Relationship of age of onset and family history in Parkinson disease.

Barrett MJ(1), Hac NE, Yan G, Harrison MB, Wooten GF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia,
USA.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine whether age of onset of
Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with differences in PD risk and PD age of
onset in parents and siblings.
METHODS: Clinical and detailed family history data were available for 1,114 PD
probands.
RESULTS: Proband age of onset was not associated with differences in PD
prevalence or PD age of onset in parents. Proband age of PD onset <50, compared
with ≥50 years, was associated with significantly greater risk of PD in siblings 
(hazard ratio: 2.4; P = 0.002; 95% confidence interval: 1.4, 4.1), and proband
age of onset was significantly correlated with sibling age of onset (Somer's
D = 0.20; P = 0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Proband age of PD onset is not associated with differences in
parental PD risk. Siblings of PD patients with onset before age 50 are at
increased risk of PD and are more likely to have early-onset disease. © 2014
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25737058  [PubMed - in process]


447. Brain Dev. 2015 Feb 28. pii: S0387-7604(15)00033-9. doi:
10.1016/j.braindev.2015.02.008. [Epub ahead of print]

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis with parkinsonian features in a child: A case
report.

Bozlu G(1), Cobanogullari Direk M(2), Okuyaz C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Mersin, Faculty of Medicine, Mersin,
Turkey; Division of Pediatric Neurology, University of Mersin, Faculty of
Medicine, Mersin, Turkey. Electronic address: gulnebi@hotmail.com. (2)Department 
of Pediatrics, University of Mersin, Faculty of Medicine, Mersin, Turkey;
Division of Pediatric Neurology, University of Mersin, Faculty of Medicine,
Mersin, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) can present with atypical 
clinical signs which may result in delayed diagnosis and treatment. We present a 
child with SSPE whose initial manifestation was parkinsonism.
PATIENT: This 12-year-old boy presented with the complaint of difficulty in
standing up and walking for 2months. Neurological examination revealed
generalized rigidity, bradykinesia, impaired postural reflexes, and a mask-like
facies. The initial diagnosis of Juvenile Parkinson Disease was made. He had no
improvement with levodopa, trihexyphenidyl, tetrabenazine and clonazepam. The EEG
showed irregular background activity with generalized slow waves which were not
suppressed with diazepam injection. SSPE was considered and the diagnosis was
confirmed with the identification of measles antibodies in cerebrospinal fluid.
CONCLUSION: SSPE should be considered in children and adolescents with
parkinsonian symptoms, particularly in the absence of a history of vaccination
against measles.

Copyright © 2015 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier
B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25736973  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


448. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26165. [Epub ahead of print]

Diminished event-related cortical arousals and altered heart rate response in
Parkinson's disease.

Sommerauer M(1), Imbach LL, Jarallah M, Baumann CR, Valko PO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich, Frauenklinikstrasse,
Zurich, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: In Parkinson's disease (PD), partial neuronal loss occurs in several 
arousal-promoting structures, but the effects on arousability have not yet been
studied.
METHODS: Polysomnographic analysis of 70 PD patients and 70 control subjects
matched for age, sex, body mass index, apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), and periodic
limb movements in sleep index (PLMSI).
RESULTS: In PD patients, arousal frequency was diminished by 50% compared with
controls (9.1 ± 7.6 vs. 18.6 ± 22.9/h; P < 0.001), and the correlations with AHI 
(rho = 0.266 vs. 0.503, P = 0.004) and PLMSI (rho = 0.082 vs. 0.354, P = 0.006)
were weaker. Hoehn & Yahr stage was an independent negative predictor of arousal 
index (β = -0.297, P = 0.015). Normalization of heart rate increase after
cortical arousals was prolonged in PD patients compared with controls (P =
0.003).
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that the neurodegenerative process in PD is
associated with an attenuated arousability to respiratory and motor events, and
with an alteration of the heart rate pattern accompanying arousals. © 2015
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25736971  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


449. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26163. [Epub ahead of print]

Somatosensory temporal discrimination in essential tremor and isolated head and
voice tremors.

Conte A(1), Ferrazzano G, Manzo N, Leodori G, Fabbrini G, Fasano A, Tinazzi M,
Berardelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Rome,
Italy; IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli (IS), Italy.

The aim of this study was to investigate the somatosensory temporal
discrimination threshold in patients with essential tremor (sporadic and
familial) and to evaluate whether somatosensory temporal discrimination threshold
values differ depending on the body parts involved by tremor. We also
investigated the somatosensory temporal discrimination in patients with isolated 
voice tremor. We enrolled 61 patients with tremor: 48 patients with essential
tremor (31 patients with upper limb tremor alone, nine patients with head tremor 
alone, and eight patients with upper limb plus head tremor; 22 patients with
familial vs. 26 sporadic essential tremor), 13 patients with isolated voice
tremor, and 45 healthy subjects. Somatosensory temporal discrimination threshold 
values were normal in patients with familial essential tremor, whereas they were 
higher in patients with sporadic essential tremor. When we classified patients
according to tremor distribution, somatosensory temporal discrimination threshold
values were normal in patients with upper limb tremor and abnormal only in
patients with isolated head tremor. Temporal discrimination threshold values were
also abnormal in patients with isolated voice tremor. Somatosensory temporal
discrimination processing is normal in patients with familial as well as in
patients with sporadic essential tremor involving the upper limbs. By contrast,
somatosensory temporal discrimination is altered in patients with isolated head
tremor and voice tremor. This study with somatosensory temporal discrimination
suggests that isolated head and voice tremors might possibly be considered as
separate clinical entities from essential tremor. © 2015 International Parkinson 
and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25736856  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


450. Drug Metab Dispos. 2015 May;43(5):735-42. doi: 10.1124/dmd.115.063594. Epub 2015 
Mar 3.

Activation and Deactivation of 1-Methyl-4-Phenyl-1,2,3,6-Tetrahydropyridine by
Cytochrome P450 Enzymes and Flavin-Containing Monooxygenases in Common Marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Murayama N(1), Shimizu M(1), Sasaki E(1),
Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., N.M., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for 
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan (T.I., E.S.); and Keio Advanced
Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.). (2)Laboratory
of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical University,
Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., N.M., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis 
Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, Japan
(Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan (T.I., E.S.); and Keio Advanced
Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.)
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The potential proneurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
induces Parkinson-like syndromes in common marmosets, other primates, and humans.
MPTP is metabolically activated to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-2,3-dihydropyridinium and
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ions (MPDP(+) and MPP(+), respectively) by
desaturation reactions. MPTP is deactivated to
4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (PTP) by N-demethylation and is also
deactivated to MPTP N-oxide. The roles of cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes and
flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs) in the oxidative metabolism of
MPTP-treated marmosets are not yet fully clarified. This study aimed to elucidate
P450- and FMO-dependent MPTP metabolism in marmoset liver and brain. Rates of
MPTP N-oxygenation in liver microsomes were similar to those in brain microsomes 
from 11 individual marmosets (substrate concentration, 50 μM) and were correlated
with rates of benzydamine N-oxygenation (r = 0.75, P < 0.05); the reactions were 
inhibited by methimazole (10 μM). MPTP N-oxygenation was efficiently mediated by 
recombinantly expressed marmoset FMO3. Rates of PTP formation by MPTP
N-demethylation in marmoset liver microsomes were correlated with bufuralol
1'-hydroxylation rates (r = 0.77, P < 0.01) and were suppressed by quinidine (1
μM), thereby indicating the importance of marmoset CYP2D6 in PTP formation. MPTP 
transformations to MPDP(+) and MPP(+) were efficiently catalyzed by recombinant
marmoset CYP2D6 and human CYP1A2. These results indicated the contributions of
multiple drug-metabolizing enzymes to MPTP oxidation, especially marmoset FMO3 in
deactivation (N-oxygenation) and marmoset CYP2D6 for both MPTP deactivation and
MPTP activation to MPDP(+) and MPP(+). These findings provide a foundation for
understanding MPTP metabolism and for the successful production of preclinical
marmoset models.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

PMID: 25735838  [PubMed - in process]


451. Australas J Ageing. 2015 Mar;34(1):1. doi: 10.1111/ajag.12228.

Tracking AJA progress.

Parkinson L.

PMID: 25735469  [PubMed - in process]


452. Recenti Prog Med. 2015 Feb;106(2):97-102. doi: 10.1701/1790.19496.

[Estimate of the prevalence of Parkinson's disease by using electronic health
archives].

[Article in Italian]

Tominz R, Marin L, Mezzarobba S.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of Parkinson's disease using electronic
health archives and to obtain a knowledge base for its governance.
MATERIALS: Drug prescriptions, tax-exemptions and hospital discharge records
relating to assisted of Health Services Agency "Triestina" in the year 2011.
RESULTS: We identified 909 cases (crude prevalence rate: 380/100.000). The
percentage contribution of drug prescriptions, tax-exemptions and hospital
discharge records is: 81.5%, 36.1% and 35.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of drug prescriptions to detect patients with Parkinson's
disease can be effectively supplemented by data of hospital discharges and
tax-exemptions, but they still show an underestimation of 17%.

PMID: 25734600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2015 Feb;57(2):82-7. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2015.57.2.82. Epub
2015 Feb 26.

Impaired voluntary wheel running behavior in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine rat
model of Parkinson's disease.

Pan Q(1), Zhang W(1), Wang J(2), Luo F(2), Chang J(3), Xu R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China. ; Key Laboratory on Brain Function Repair and Regeneration of
Guangdong, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China. (2)Key Laboratory of
Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing,
China. (3)Neuroscience Research Institute of North Carolina, Winston-Salem, NC,
USA. (4)Department of Neurosurgery, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical
University, Guangzhou, China. ; Key Laboratory on Brain Function Repair and
Regeneration of Guangdong, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China. ;
Department of Neurosurgery, The Military General Hospital of Beijing PLA,
Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate voluntary wheel running
behavior in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model.
METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to 2 groups : 6-OHDA group (n=17)
and control group (n=8). The unilateral 6-OHDA rat model was induced by injection
of 6-OHDA into unilateral medial forebrain bundle using a stereotaxic instrument.
Voluntary wheel running activity was assessed per day in successfully lesioned
rats (n=10) and control rats. Each behavioral test lasted an hour. The following 
parameters were investigated during behavioral tests : the number of running
bouts, the distance moved in the wheel, average peak speed in running bouts and
average duration from the running start to the peak speed.
RESULTS: The number of running bouts and the distance moved in the wheel were
significantly decreased in successfully lesioned rats compared with control rats.
In addition, average peak speed in running bouts was decreased, and average
duration from the running start to the peak speed was increased in lesioned
animals, which might indicate motor deficits in these rats. These behavioral
changes were still observed 42 days after lesion.
CONCLUSION: Voluntary wheel running behavior is impaired in the unilateral 6-OHDA
rat model and may represent a useful tool to quantify motor deficits in this
model.

PMCID: PMC4345198
PMID: 25733987  [PubMed]


454. Cell Rep. 2015 Mar 3;10(8):1252-60. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2015.01.060. Epub 2015 
Feb 26.

Progressive aggregation of alpha-synuclein and selective degeneration of lewy
inclusion-bearing neurons in a mouse model of parkinsonism.

Osterberg VR(1), Spinelli KJ(1), Weston LJ(1), Luk KC(2), Woltjer RL(3), Unni
VK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Jungers Center for Neurosciences Research, Oregon Health and Science
University, Portland, OR 97239, USA. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, Institute on Aging and Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research,
University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104,
USA. (3)Department of Pathology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, 
OR 97239, USA. (4)Jungers Center for Neurosciences Research, Oregon Health and
Science University, Portland, OR 97239, USA; Parkinson Center of Oregon,
Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR
97239, USA. Electronic address: unni@ohsu.edu.

Aggregated alpha-synuclein inclusions are found where cell death occurs in
several diseases, including Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and
multiple-system atrophy. However, the relationship between inclusion formation
and an individual cell's fate has been difficult to study with conventional
techniques. We developed a system that allows for in vivo imaging of the same
neurons over months. We show that intracerebral injection of preformed fibrils of
recombinant alpha-synuclein can seed aggregation of transgenically expressed and 
endogenous alpha-synuclein in neurons. Somatic inclusions undergo a stage-like
maturation, with progressive compaction coinciding with decreased soluble somatic
and nuclear alpha-synuclein. Mature inclusions bear the post-translational
hallmarks of human Lewy pathology. Long-term imaging of inclusion-bearing neurons
and neighboring neurons without inclusions demonstrates selective degeneration of
inclusion-bearing cells. Our results indicate that inclusion formation is tightly
correlated with cellular toxicity and that seeding may be a pathologically
relevant mechanism of progressive neurodegeneration in many synucleinopathies.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4351119 [Available on 2016-03-03]
PMID: 25732816  [PubMed - in process]


455. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 15;351(1-2):41-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.02.029. Epub
2015 Feb 21.

Heterogeneity among patients with Parkinson's disease: Cluster analysis and
genetic association.

Ma LY(1), Chan P(2), Gu ZQ(3), Li FF(1), Feng T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative disease, Department of Neurology, Beijing Tiantan
Hospital, Capital Medical University, #6 Tian Tan Xi Li Street, Beijing 100050,
China; China National Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases, #6 Tian
Tan Xi Li Street, Beijing 100050, China. (2)Department of Neurobiology and
Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, #45 Changchun Street,
Beijing 100053, China.; Key Laboratory on Neurodegenerative Disease of Ministry
of Education and Key Laboratory on Parkinson's Disease of Beijing, #45 Changchun 
Street, Beijing 100053, China; Parkinson's Disease Center, Beijing Institute for 
Brain Disorders, #10 You'an Men Wai Xi Tou Tiao, Beijing 100069, China.
(3)Department of Neurobiology and Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical
University, #45 Changchun Street, Beijing 100053, China.; Key Laboratory on
Neurodegenerative Disease of Ministry of Education and Key Laboratory on
Parkinson's Disease of Beijing, #45 Changchun Street, Beijing 100053, China.
(4)Center for Neurodegenerative disease, Department of Neurology, Beijing Tiantan
Hospital, Capital Medical University, #6 Tian Tan Xi Li Street, Beijing 100050,
China; Parkinson's Disease Center, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, #10
You'an Men Wai Xi Tou Tiao, Beijing 100069, China; China National Clinical
Research Center for Neurological Diseases, #6 Tian Tan Xi Li Street, Beijing
100050, China. Electronic address: happyft@sina.com.

The clinical heterogeneity of Parkinson's disease (PD) reveals the presence of
several PD subtypes. The objectives of this study were to identify PD subtypes
using cluster analysis (CA) and to determine the association between the subtypes
and the polymorphisms in LRRK2 (G2385R and R1628P) and GBA (L444P) genes. A
k-means CA of demographics, disease progression, motor and non-motor symptoms was
performed from 1,510 Chinese PD patients from the Chinese National Consortium on 
Neurodegenerative Diseases. Pearson correlation analysis was performed to
eliminate uninformative characteristics. Blood samples from 852 patients were
obtained for genetic analysis of LRRK2 and GBA. Genotypic associations between
various subtypes and genetic variants were examined using chi-square test. We
identified four different subtypes: subtype 1 was non-tremor dominant (NTD,
n=469; 31.1%); subtype 2 had a rapid disease progression with late onset (RDP-LO,
n=67; 4.4%); subtype 3 had benign pure motor characteristics (BPM, n=778; 51.5%) 
without non-motor disturbances; and subtype 4 was tremor dominant with slow
disease progression (TD-SP, n=196; 13.0%). Subtypes 1, 2, and 4 had similar mean 
age of onset. No associations were identified between polymorphisms in LRRK2
(R1628P) and GBA (L444P) genes and the four subtypes (P>0.05).

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25732803  [PubMed - in process]


456. Trends Cogn Sci. 2015 Mar;19(3):133-41. doi: 10.1016/j.tics.2015.01.003.

The repurposed social brain.

Parkinson C(1), Wheatley T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Dartmouth College, 6207 Moore 
Hall, Hanover, NH 03755, USA. (2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, 
Dartmouth College, 6207 Moore Hall, Hanover, NH 03755, USA. Electronic address:
thalia.p.wheatley@dartmouth.edu.

Human social intelligence depends on a diverse array of perceptual, cognitive,
and motivational capacities. Some of these capacities depend on neural systems
that may have evolved through modification of ancestral systems with non-social
or more limited social functions (evolutionary repurposing). Social intelligence,
in turn, enables new forms of repurposing within the lifetime of an individual
(cultural and instrumental repurposing), which entail innovating over and
exploiting pre-existing circuitry to meet problems our brains did not evolve to
solve. Considering these repurposing processes can provide insight into the
computations that brain regions contribute to social information processing,
generate testable predictions that usefully constrain social neuroscience theory,
and reveal biologically imposed constraints on cultural inventions and our
ability to respond beneficially to contemporary challenges.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25732617  [PubMed - in process]


457. Brain Res Bull. 2015 Apr;113:34-40. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2015.02.007. Epub
2015 Feb 28.

N-acetylcysteine prevents rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease in rat: An
investigation into the interaction of parkin and Drp1 proteins.

Rahimmi A(1), Khosrobakhsh F(2), Izadpanah E(3), Moloudi MR(4), Hassanzadeh K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioscience & Biotechnology, University of Kurdistan, Sanandaj,
Iran; Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Kurdistan University of Medical
Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran. (2)Department of Bioscience & Biotechnology, University
of Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Iran. (3)Cellular and Molecular Research Center,
Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran; Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, 
Iran. (4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Kurdistan University of
Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran. (5)Cellular and Molecular Research Center,
Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran; Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, 
Iran. Electronic address: kambizhassanzadeh@gmail.com.

There are convincing evidences that oxidative stress has an important role in
both the initiation and progression of Parkinson's disease. N-acetylcysteine
(NAC) is shown to have antioxidant properties via fortifying glutathione which is
one of the main endogenous antioxidant systems. Therefore our study was aimed to 
evaluate the effect of NAC in management of Parkinson's disease. To this aim,
male Wistar rats (10-12 months) received rotenone 2.5mg/kg/48h intraperitoneally 
(ip) to induce a Parkinson's disease model. Pretreatment with NAC (25 and
50mg/kg/48h ip) was administered 1h before the rotenone injection. Three
behavioral tests (rotarod, rearing and bar tests) were performed for motor
function assessment. Dopamine levels of dopaminergic areas in rat brain including
substantia nigra (SN) and striatum (ST) were assessed using high performance
liquid chromatography analysis to measure the loss of dopamine. Western blot
analysis was also done for parkin and Drp1 (dynamin related protein-1) proteins
quantification in SN and ST. Our results indicated that NAC significantly
ameliorated the rotenone-induced motor dysfunction and dopamine loss.
Furthermore, NAC was able to prevent the rotenone-induced changes in parkin and
Drp1 levels in the both studied areas. In conclusion we found that NAC delayed
the Parkinson's disease induction by rotenone and this effect might be related to
its proved antioxidant effect.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25732239  [PubMed - in process]


458. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 May;77:49-61. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.02.019. Epub 2015 Feb
28.

Adenoviral-mediated expression of G2019S LRRK2 induces striatal pathology in a
kinase-dependent manner in a rat model of Parkinson's disease.

Tsika E(1), Nguyen AP(2), Dusonchet J(3), Colin P(3), Schneider BL(3), Moore
DJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurodegenerative Research, Brain Mind Institute,
School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland. (2)Center for Neurodegenerative Science, Van Andel
Research Institute, Grand Rapids, MI 49503, USA. (3)Neurodegenerative Studies
Laboratory, Brain Mind Institute, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. (4)Laboratory of
Molecular Neurodegenerative Research, Brain Mind Institute, School of Life
Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland; Center for Neurodegenerative Science, Van Andel Research Institute, 
Grand Rapids, MI 49503, USA. Electronic address: Darren.Moore@vai.org.

Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene cause late-onset,
autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). LRRK2 contains functional GTPase and
kinase domains. The most common G2019S mutation enhances the kinase activity of
LRRK2 in vitro whereas G2019S LRRK2 expression in cultured neurons induces
toxicity in a kinase-dependent manner. These observations suggest a potential
role for kinase activity in LRRK2-associated PD. We have recently developed a
novel rodent model of PD with progressive neurodegeneration induced by the
adenoviral-mediated expression of G2019S LRRK2. In the present study, we further 
characterize this LRRK2 model and determine the contribution of kinase activity
to LRRK2-mediated neurodegeneration. Recombinant human adenoviral vectors were
employed to deliver human wild-type, G2019S or kinase-inactive G2019S/D1994N
LRRK2 to the rat striatum. LRRK2-dependent pathology was assessed in the
striatum, a region where LRRK2 protein is normally enriched in the mammalian
brain. Human LRRK2 variants are robustly expressed throughout the rat striatum.
Expression of G2019S LRRK2 selectively induces the accumulation of neuronal
ubiquitin-positive inclusions accompanied by neurite degeneration and the altered
distribution of axonal phosphorylated neurofilaments. Importantly, the
introduction of a kinase-inactive mutation (G2019S/D1994N) completely ameliorates
the pathological effects of G2019S LRRK2 in the striatum supporting a kinase
activity-dependent mechanism for this PD-associated mutation. Collectively, our
study further elucidates the pathological effects of the G2019S mutation in the
mammalian brain and supports the development of kinase inhibitors as a potential 
therapeutic approach for treating LRRK2-associated PD. This adenoviral rodent
model provides an important tool for elucidating the molecular basis of
LRRK2-mediated neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25731749  [PubMed - in process]


459. Nutr Neurosci. 2015 Mar 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Lutein protects dopaminergic neurons against MPTP-induced apoptotic death and
motor dysfunction by ameliorating mitochondrial disruption and oxidative stress.

Nataraj J, Manivasagam T, Justin Thenmozhi A, Essa MM.

Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress-mediated apoptosis play an
important role in various neurodegenerative diseases including Huntington's
disease, Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), the most widely used
neurotoxin mimics the symptoms of PD by inhibiting mitochondrial complex I that
stimulates excessive intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and finally
leads to mitochondrial-dependent apoptosis. Lutein, a carotenoid of xanthophyll
family, is found abundantly in leafy green vegetables such as spinach, kale and
in egg yolk, animal fat and human eye retinal macula. Increasing evidence
indicates that lutein has offers benefits against neuronal damages during
diabetic retinopathy, ischemia and AD by virtue of its mitochondrial protective, 
antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties. In this study, lutein significantly
reversed the loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons by increasing the striatal
dopamine level in mice. Moreover, lutein-ameliorated MPTP induced mitochondrial
dysfunction, oxidative stress and motor abnormalities. In addition, lutein
repressed the MPTP-induced neuronal damage/apoptosis by inhibiting the activation
of pro-apoptotic markers (Bax, caspases-3, 8 and 9) and enhancing anti-apoptotic 
marker (Bcl-2) expressions. In conclusion, our current results revealed that
lutein possessed protection on dopaminergic neurons by enhancing antioxidant
defense and diminishing mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptotic death, suggesting
the potential benefits of lutein for PD treatment.

PMID: 25730317  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


460. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2015 Mar 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Episodic Memory in Alzheimer Disease, Frontotemporal Dementia, and Dementia With 
Lewy Bodies/Parkinson Disease Dementia: Disentangling Retrieval From
Consolidation.

Economou A(1), Routsis C, Papageorgiou SG.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Psychology, School of Philosophy †Cognitive
Neurology-Extrapyramidal Disorders Unit, 1st University Department of Neurology, 
Eginition Hospital, Medical School, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

INTRODUCTION:: Differences in episodic memory performance in patients with
Alzheimer disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with Lewy bodies 
(DLB)/Parkinson disease with dementia (PDD) are inconsistent and task dependent. 
The inconsistencies may be attributed to the different tasks drawing on different
memory processes. Few studies have examined episodic memory impairment in the
above groups using memory tests that facilitate encoding, to distinguish memory
deficits due to impairment of specific processes.
METHODS:: We examined the memory performance of 106 AD patients, 51 FTD patients,
26 DLB/PDD patients, and 37 controls using the Five-Words Test, a 5-item memory
test that facilitates encoding.
RESULTS:: The patient groups did not differ in modified Mini Mental State
Examination scores. AD patients scored lowest on the Five-Words Test overall, and
showed the greatest reduction from immediate total recall to delayed free recall 
relative to the other 2 groups, consistent with a predominantly consolidation
deficit. DLB/PDD patients showed the largest improvement from delayed free to
delayed total recall relative to the other 2 groups, consistent with a
predominantly retrieval deficit.
DISCUSSION:: Deficits in both consolidation and retrieval underlie the memory
impairment of the patients, to different extents, and contribute to the
theoretical understanding of the nature of the memory impairment of the patient
groups.

PMID: 25730300  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


461. Acta Physiol (Oxf). 2015 Feb 26. doi: 10.1111/apha.12476. [Epub ahead of print]

DOPAMINE AND T CELLS: Receptors, Direct and Potent Effects, Endogenous Production
and Abnormalities in Autoimmune, Neurological and Psychiatric Diseases.

Levite M(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem,
Israel; Institute of Gene Therapy, Hadassah Medical Center, Ein Karen, Jerusalem,
91120, Israel; School of Behavioral Sciences, Academic College of Tel-Aviv-Yaffo,
Tel Aviv, Israel.

Dopamine, a principal neurotransmitter, deserves upgrading to
'NeuroImmunotransmitter' thanks to its multiple, direct and powerful effects on
most/all immune cells. Dopamine by itself is a potent activator of resting
effector T cells (Teffs), via two independent ways: direct Teffs activation, and 
indirect Teffs activation by suppression of regulatory T cells (Tregs). The
review covers the following findings:1)T cells express functional dopamine
receptors (DR) D1R-D5R, but their level and function are dynamic and
context-sensitive, 2)DRs membranal protein levels do not necessarily correlate
with DRs mRNA levels, 3)Different T cell types/subtypes have different DR
levels/composition and different responses to dopamine, 4) Autoimmune T cells and
T-leukemia/lymphoma also express functional DRs, 5)Dopamine (~10(-8) ) activates 
resting/naive Teffs (CD8(+) >>>CD4(+) ), 6)Dopamine affects Th1/Th2/Th17
differentiation, 7)Dopamine inhibits already activated Teffs (i.e.
mitogen/antigen/anti-CD3±CD28 antibodies/cytokine-activated Teffs), 8)Dopamine
inhibits activated Tregs in autocrine/paracrine manner. Thus, dopamine
'suppresses the suppressors', 9)Dopamine affects intracellular signaling
molecules/cascades in T cells (e.g. ERK,Lck,Fyn,NFκB,KLF2), 10)T cells produce
dopamine (Tregs>>>Teffs), release dopamine, mainly after
mitogen/antigen/CD3±CD28/PKC activation, uptake extracellular dopamine, and need 
dopamine, 11)Dopamine is important for antigen-specific interactions between T
cells and dendritic cells, 12)In few autoimmune (e.g. Multiple
Sclerosis/SLE/Rheumatoid Arthritis), and Neurological/Psychiatric diseases (e.g. 
Parkinson/Alzheimer/Schizophrenia/Tourette) patient's T cells have abnormal DRs
expression, and/or responses to dopamine, 13)Drugs that affect the dopaminergic
system have potent effects on T cells (e.g.
Dopamine=Intropin/L-Dopa/Bromocriptine/Haloperidol/Quinpirol/Reserpine/Pergolide/
Ecopipam/Pimozide/ Amantadine/Tetrabenzine/Nomifensine/Butaclamol).
Dopamine-induced activation of resting Teffs and suppression of Tregs seem
beneficial for health, and may also be used for immunotherapy of cancer and
infectious diseases. Independently, suppression of DRs in autoimmune and
cancerous T cells may be advantageous. The review is relevant to
immunologists/neurologists/neuroimmunologists/hematologists/psychiatrists/psychol
ogists/pharmacologists. This article is protected by copyright. All rights
reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25728499  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


462. Geriatr Nurs. 2015 Feb 26. pii: S0197-4572(15)00049-X. doi:
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Challenges and strategies of medication adherence in Parkinson's disease: A
qualitative study.

Shin JY(1), Habermann B(2), Pretzer-Aboff I(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Nursing, College of Health Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark,
DE 19716, USA. Electronic address: jushin@udel.edu. (2)School of Nursing, College
of Health Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716, USA.

Little is known about strategies used by people with Parkinson's disease (PD) to 
facilitate medication adherence in the U.S. The purpose of this study was to
describe challenges in adherence to medication regimens and to identify
strategies used to facilitate adherence to medication regimens. A qualitative
research design was used to interview sixteen community-dwelling people with PD
and five caregivers. Data analysis was performed using content analysis. The
majority of the participants (81.3%) reported decreased adherence to medication
regimens. Seven themes emerged from the data. The main challenges of medication
adherence included medication responses, cost of medications, and forgetfulness. 
Strategies used to facilitate adherence to medication regimens included seeking
knowledge about antiparkinsonian medications, seeking advice from family and
friends, use of devices, and use of reminders. These findings may be important in
formulating interventions to improve adherence to medication regimens for people 
living with PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25728485  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


463. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Feb 24. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22726. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparing apples and oranges-the influence of food mechanical properties on
ingestive bite sizes in lemurs.

Hartstone-Rose A(1), Parkinson JA, Criste T, Perry JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, The University of South Carolina
School of Medicine, Columbia, SC, 29209; Department of Anthropology, The
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, 29208.

Previously we found that Maximum Ingested Bite Size (Vb )-the largest piece of
food that an animal will ingest whole without biting first-scales isometrically
with body size in 17 species of strepsirrhines at the Duke Lemur Center (DLC).
However, because this earlier study focused on only three food types (two with
similar mechanical properties), it did not yield results that were easily applied
to describing the broad diets of these taxa. Expressing Vb in terms of food
mechanical properties allows us to compare data across food types, including
foods of wild lemurs, to better understand dietary adaptations in lemurs. To this
end, we quantified Vb in five species of lemurs at the DLC representing large and
small frugivores and folivores using ten types of food that vary widely in
stiffness and toughness to determine how these properties relate to bite sizes.
We found that although most species take smaller bites of stiffer foods, this
negative relationship was not statistically significant across the whole sample. 
However, there is a significant relationship between bite size and toughness. All
three of the more frugivorous taxa in our sample take significantly smaller bites
of tougher foods. However, the two more folivorous lemurs do not. They take small
bites for all foods. This suggests that the species most adapted to the
consumption of tough foods do not modulate their ingestive sizes to accommodate
larger pieces of weak foods. Am J Phys Anthropol, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals,
Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25727399  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


464. Ann Neurol. 2015 Feb 27. doi: 10.1002/ana.24396. [Epub ahead of print]

Traumatic brain injury in later life increases risk for Parkinson disease.

Gardner RC(1), Burke JF, Nettiksimmons J, Goldman S, Tanner CM, Yaffe K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA; San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA.

OBJECTIVE: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is thought to be a risk factor for
Parkinson disease (PD), but results are conflicting. Many studies do not account 
for confounding or reverse causation. We sought to address these concerns by
quantifying risk of PD after TBI compared to non-TBI trauma (NTT; defined as
fractures).
METHODS: Using inpatient/emergency department (ED) International Classification
of Disease, Ninth Revision code data for California hospitals from 2005-2006, we 
identified patients aged ≥55 years with TBI (n = 52,393) or NTT (n = 113,406) and
without baseline PD or dementia who survived hospitalization. Using Kaplan-Meier 
estimates and Cox proportional hazards models (adjusted for age, sex,
race/ethnicity, income, comorbidities, health care use, and trauma severity), we 
estimated risk of PD after TBI during follow-up ending in 2011. We also assessed 
interaction with mechanism of injury (fall vs nonfall) and effect of TBI severity
(mild vs moderate/severe) and TBI frequency (1 TBI vs >1 TBI).
RESULTS: TBI patients were significantly more likely to be diagnosed with PD
compared to NTT patients (1.7% vs 1.1%, p < 0.001, adjusted hazard ratio
[HR] = 1.44, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.31-1.58). Risk of PD was similar
for TBI sustained via falls versus nonfalls (interaction p = 0.6). Assessment by 
TBI severity (mild TBI: HR = 1.24, 95% CI = 1.04-1.48; moderate/severe TBI:
HR = 1.50, 95% CI = 1.35-1.66) and TBI frequency (1 TBI: HR = 1.45, 95%
CI = 1.30-1.60; >1 TBI: HR = 1.87, 95% CI = 1.58-2.21) revealed a dose response.
INTERPRETATION: Among patients aged ≥55 years presenting to inpatient/ED settings
with trauma, TBI is associated with a 44% increased risk of developing PD over 5 
to 7 years that is unlikely to be due to confounding or reverse causation. Ann
Neurol 2015.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25726936  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


465. Brain Pathol. 2015 Mar 1. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12253. [Epub ahead of print]

Molecular, Neurochemical, and Behavioral Hallmarks of Reserpine as a Model for
Parkinson's Disease: New Perspectives to a Long-Standing Model.

Leão AH(1), Sarmento-Silva AJ, Santos JR, Ribeiro AM, Silva RH.

Author information: 
(1)Memory Studies Laboratory, Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.

The administration of reserpine to rodents was one of the first models used to
investigate the pathophysiology and screening for potential treatments of
Parkinson's disease (PD). The reserpine model was critical to the understanding
of the role of monoamine system in the regulation of motor and affective
disorders, as well as the efficacy of current PD treatments, such as L-DOPA and
dopamine agonists. Nevertheless, with the introduction of toxin-induced and
genetic models of PD, reserpine became underused. The main rationale to this
drawback was the supposed absence of reserpine construct validity with PD. Here, 
we highlight classical and recent experimental findings that support the face,
pharmacological, and construct validity of reserpine PD model and reason against 
the current rationale for its underuse. We also aim to shed a new perspective
upon the model by discussing the main challenges and potentials for the reserpine
model of PD.

© 2015 International Society of Neuropathology.

PMID: 25726735  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


466. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 May;21(5):455-60. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.005. Epub 2015 Feb 14.

Characterization of gastrointestinal disorders in patients with parkinsonian
syndromes.

Park H(1), Lee JY(2), Shin CM(3), Kim JM(4), Kim TJ(1), Kim JW(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University-Seoul Metropolitan
Government Boramae Medical Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University-Seoul
Metropolitan Government Boramae Medical Center, Seoul National University College
of Medicine, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: wieber04@snu.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: cmshin@snubh.org. (4)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University 
Bundang Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Republic of
Korea. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, Seoul National University-Seoul
Metropolitan Government Boramae Medical Center, Seoul National University College
of Medicine, Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVES: This study was aimed to investigate gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction
in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) compared with those in patients with
other parkinsonian disorders, and to characterize parkinsonian motor and
non-motor correlates for GI dysfunction.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with PD, atypical parkinsonism (P-plus) and
vascular parkinsonism (VP) were enrolled in this multicenter systematic survey.
Data for weight loss, appetite loss, sialorrhea, dysphagia, gastroesophageal
reflux disease (GERD) and constipation were simultaneously collected using
symptom-specific, structured questionnaires. For the PD group, information for
onset age, PD duration, anti-parkinsonian drug dosages, unified PD rating scale, 
and Hoehn & Yahr stage were collected at the time of the interview.
RESULTS: Enrolled in the study were 329 PD, 82 P-plus, and 62 VP patients. GI
symptom frequencies were similar in PD and other parkinsonian groups. Among the
PD patients, constipation was the most common symptom, followed by appetite loss,
weight loss, dysphagia, sialorrhea, and GERD (64.9%, 45.4%, 35.7%, 19.4%, 15.0%, 
and 9.6%, respectively). Dysphagia, sialorrhea, and constipation became more
frequent with more advanced PD stages. Cognition, sleep and mood disturbances
were significantly associated with weight loss, appetite loss, and dysphagia,
whereas bradykinesia, axial and postural instability with gait disturbance were
associated with dysphagia.
CONCLUSIONS: GI disturbance is common in patients with non-PD parkinsonism as
well as in those with PD. GI symptoms correlated with distinct parkinsonian motor
and nonmotor features in PD. Further studies are warranted to reveal the
pathophysiological mechanisms and prognostic features of GI disturbances in
parkinsonian disorders.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25726518  [PubMed - in process]


467. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 May;36(5):1903-13. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.01.018. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

Decreased mitochondrial bioenergetics and calcium buffering capacity in the basal
ganglia correlates with motor deficits in a nonhuman primate model of aging.

Pandya JD(1), Grondin R(2), Yonutas HM(1), Haghnazar H(2), Gash DM(2), Zhang
Z(2), Sullivan PG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Spinal Cord and Brain Injury Research Center, The University of Kentucky
Chandler College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, USA; Department of Anatomy and
Neurobiology, The University of Kentucky Chandler College of Medicine, Lexington,
KY, USA. (2)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, The University of Kentucky
Chandler College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, USA. (3)Spinal Cord and Brain Injury
Research Center, The University of Kentucky Chandler College of Medicine,
Lexington, KY, USA; Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, The University of
Kentucky Chandler College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, USA. Electronic address:
patsull@uky.edu.

Altered mitochondrial function in the basal ganglia has been hypothesized to
underlie cellular senescence and promote age-related motor decline. We tested
this hypothesis in a nonhuman primate model of human aging. Six young (6-8 years 
old) and 6 aged (20-25 years old) female Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were
behaviorally characterized from standardized video records. Additionally, we
measured mitochondrial bioenergetics along with calcium buffering capacity in the
substantia nigra and putamen (PUT) from both age groups. Our results demonstrate 
that the aged animals had significantly reduced locomotor activity and movement
speed compared with younger animals. Moreover, aged monkeys had significantly
reduced ATP synthesis capacity (in substantia nigra and PUT), reduced pyruvate
dehydrogenase activity (in PUT), and reduced calcium buffering capacity (in PUT) 
compared with younger animals. Furthermore, this age-related decline in
mitochondrial function in the basal ganglia correlated with decline in motor
function. Overall, our results suggest that drug therapies designed to enhance
altered mitochondrial function may help improve motor deficits in the elderly.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25726361  [PubMed - in process]


468. Handb Clin Neurol. 2015;129:667-87. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-62630-1.00037-8.

Hearing and music in dementia.

Johnson JK(1), Chow ML(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Health and Aging, University of California, San Francisco, CA,
USA. Electronic address: julene.johnson@ucsf.edu. (2)School of Medicine,
University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Music is a complex acoustic signal that relies on a number of different brain and
cognitive processes to create the sensation of hearing. Changes in hearing
function are generally not a major focus of concern for persons with a majority
of neurodegenerative diseases associated with dementia, such as Alzheimer disease
(AD). However, changes in the processing of sounds may be an early, and possibly 
preclinical, feature of AD and other neurodegenerative diseases. The aim of this 
chapter is to review the current state of knowledge concerning hearing and music 
perception in persons who have a dementia as a result of a neurodegenerative
disease. The review focuses on both peripheral and central auditory processing in
common neurodegenerative diseases, with a particular focus on the processing of
music and other non-verbal sounds. The chapter also reviews music interventions
used for persons with neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25726296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


469. J Voice. 2015 Feb 25. pii: S0892-1997(14)00197-0. doi:
10.1016/j.jvoice.2014.09.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Tolerance of the VocaLog™ Vocal Monitor by Healthy Persons and Individuals With
Parkinson Disease.

Searl J(1), Dietsch AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Kansas Medical Center, Hearing and Speech Department, Kansas
City, KS. (2)University of Kansas Medical Center, Hearing and Speech Department, 
Kansas City, KS. Electronic address: angela.m.dietsch.ctr@mail.mil.

OBJECTIVE: To assess subject tolerance of extended use of the VocaLog™ vocal
monitor (VM), a device marketed to log calibrated decibel sound pressure level.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective between-subjects design including two age- and
sex-matched groups: individuals with Parkinson disease (IWPD) and healthy
persons.
METHODS: After an initial session to calibrate the device and demonstrate its
use, participants wore the VM during waking hours for five consecutive days. At a
second visit to return the VM, participants completed a survey and a short
interview regarding their experience with and perceptions of the device.
RESULTS: Those with PD and control subjects reported relatively few issues with
use of the VM. There were no group differences regarding convenience, others'
reactions, technical issues, or future participation in similar studies.
Participants with PD indicated similar frequency of discomfort issues but higher 
severity ratings for discomfort during VM use compared with healthy participants.
CONCLUSIONS: The VocaLog™ offers a method to monitor vocal loudness during
everyday activities for several consecutive days. The device was well tolerated
by participants from both groups. IWPD reported greater discomfort than controls,
possibly reflecting altered sensory perceptions associated with PD. The current
data offer some reassurance that this VM can be tolerated by both healthy persons
and those with PD for clinical and research purposes.

Copyright © 2014 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25726068  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


470. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr 15;351(1-2):3-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.02.028. Epub 2015
Feb 21.

Neurobiological studies on the relationship between toxoplasmosis and
neuropsychiatric diseases.

Fabiani S(1), Pinto B(1), Bonuccelli U(2), Bruschi F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Pathology, M.B.I.E., School of Medicine, Università
di Pisa, Via Roma, 55, Pisa, Italy. (2)Department of Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, Section of Neurology, Università di Pisa, Via Roma, 67, 56126 Pisa,
Italy. Electronic address: u.bonuccelli@med.unipi.it. (3)Department of
Experimental Pathology, M.B.I.E., School of Medicine, Università di Pisa, Via
Roma, 55, Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: fabrizio.bruschi@med.unipi.it.

Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread protozoan parasite infecting approximately one 
third of the world population. After proliferation of tachyzoites during the
acute stage, the parasite forms tissue cysts in various anatomical sites
including the Central Nervous tissue, and establishes a chronic infection.
Clinical spectrum normally ranges from a completely asymptomatic infection to
severe multi-organ involvement. Many studies have suggested T. gondii infection
as a risk factor for the development of some neuropsychiatric disorders,
particularly schizophrenia. During the last years, a potential link with other
neurobiological diseases such as Parkinson disease and Alzheimer disease has also
been suggested. This review will focus on neurobiological and epidemiological
data relating infection with T. gondii to neuropsychiatric diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25725931  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


471. Methods Enzymol. 2015;554:169-86. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2014.11.015. Epub 2015 Jan 
10.

Neuroprotective effects of hydrogen sulfide in Parkinson's disease animal models:
methods and protocols.

Xue X(1), Bian JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National
University of Singapore, Singapore. (2)Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore. Electronic
address: phcbjs@nus.edu.sg.

Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) was first proposed to be a neuromodulator in 1996. After
that, multiple biological functions of H2S have been revealed. In brain, it
regulates intracellular calcium, intracellular pH, and cAMP level in different
brain cells via regulation of the functions of different proteins. In
pathological situations, H2S produces anti-inflammatory, -oxidant, and -apoptotic
effects, and therefore is potentially used to treat neurodegenerative diseases,
especially Parkinson's disease (PD). In this chapter, we summarized the methods
commonly used to create PD animal models followed by description of evaluations
of PD pathology. The PD models described in this chapter included those caused by
various neurotoxins like 6-hydroxydopamine, rotenone, and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Methods for examination of
dopaminergic neuron loss and microglial activation in both substantia nigra and
striatum are also described. The role of H2S and its therapeutic potentials are
discussed in the last section of this chapter.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25725522  [PubMed - in process]


472. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Apr;76:112-25. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.02.005. Epub 2015 Feb 
26.

α-Synuclein-mediated inhibition of ATF6 processing into COPII vesicles disrupts
UPR signaling in Parkinson's disease.

Credle JJ(1), Forcelli PA(2), Delannoy M(3), Oaks AW(1), Permaul E(4), Berry
DL(4), Duka V(1), Wills J(1), Sidhu A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, 
DC 20007, USA. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology and Interdisciplinary
Program in Neuroscience, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC
20007, USA. (3)SOM Microscope Facility, Department of Cell Biology, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. (4)Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA. (5)Department of
Biochemistry, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.
Electronic address: sidhua@georgetown.edu.

The unfolded protein response (UPR) monitors the folding environment within the
endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Accumulation of misfolded proteins within the ER
activates the UPR resulting in the execution of adaptive or non-adaptive
signaling pathways. α-Synuclein (α-syn) whose accumulation and aggregation define
the pathobiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) has been shown to inhibit ER-Golgi
transit of COPII vesicles. ATF6, a protective branch of the UPR, is processed via
COPII mediated ER-Golgi transit following its activation via ER stress. Using
cellular PD models together with biochemical reconstitution assays, we showed
that α-syn inhibited processing of ATF6 directly through physical interactions
and indirectly through restricted incorporation into COPII vesicles. Impaired
ATF6 signaling was accompanied by decreased ER-associated degradation (ERAD)
function and increased pro-apoptotic signaling. The mechanism by which α-syn
inhibits ATF6 signaling expands our understanding of the role ER stress and the
UPR play in neurodegenerative diseases such as PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25725420  [PubMed - in process]


473. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2015 Feb 25. pii: S1044-7431(15)00019-6. doi:
10.1016/j.mcn.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Chaperone mediated autophagy to the rescue: A new-fangled target for the
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

Xilouri M(1), Stefanis L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Neurosciences, Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy
of Athens, Athens, Greece. Electronic address: mxilouri@bioacademy.gr.
(2)Division of Basic Neurosciences, Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy
of Athens, Athens, Greece; Second Department of Neurology, University of Athens
Medical School, Athens, Greece.

One of the main pathways of lysosomal proteolysis is chaperone-mediated autophagy
(CMA), which represents a selective mechanism for the degradation of specific
soluble proteins within lysosomes. Along with the other two lysosomal pathways,
macro- and micro-autophagy, CMA contributes to cellular quality control through
the removal of damaged or malfunctioning proteins. The two intrinsic
characteristics of CMA are the selective targeting and the direct translocation
of substrate proteins into the lysosomal lumen, in a fine-tuned manner through
the orchestrated action of a chaperone/co-chaperone complex localized both at the
cytosol and the lysosomes. Even though CMA was originally identified as a
stress-induced pathway, basal CMA activity is detectable in most cell types
analyzed so far, including neurons. Additionally, CMA activity declines with age 
and this may become a major aggravating factor contributing to neurodegeneration.
More specifically, it has been suggested that CMA impairment may underlie the
accumulation of misfolded/aggregated proteins, such as alpha-synuclein or LRRK2, 
whose levels or conformations are critical to Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.
On the other hand, CMA induction might accelerate clearance of pathogenic
proteins and promote cell survival, suggesting that CMA represents a viable
therapeutic target for the treatment of various proteinopathies. In the current
review, we provide an overview of the current state of knowledge regarding the
role of CMA under physiological and pathological conditions of the nervous system
and discuss the implications of these findings for therapeutic interventions for 
Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. This article is part
of Special Issue entitled "Neuronal Protein".

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25724482  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


474. Neurotoxicology. 2015 Mar;47:82-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2015.02.004. Epub 2015
Feb 25.

Neuroprotective effect of thalidomide on MPTP-induced toxicity.

Palencia G(1), Garcia E(2), Osorio-Rico L(3), Trejo-Solís C(4), Escamilla-Ramírez
A(5), Sotelo J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico
City, Mexico. Electronic address: phg6219@gmail.com. (2)Neuroimmunology Unit,
National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico. Electronic
address: egarciainnn@gmail.com. (3)Laboratory of Neurochemistry, National
Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico. Electronic address:
lau_rico@yahoo.com. (4)Neuroimmunology Unit, National Institute of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico. Electronic address: trejosolis@yahoo.com.mx.
(5)Neuroimmunology Unit, National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico
City, Mexico. Electronic address: era_medicine118@hotmail.com. (6)Neuroimmunology
Unit, National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico.
Electronic address: jsotelo@unam.mx.

Thalidomide is a sedative with unique pharmacological properties; studies on
epilepsy and brain ischemia have shown intense neuroprotective effects. We
analyzed the effect of thalidomide treatment on the neurotoxicity caused by the
administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahidropyridine (MPTP) in mice.
Thalidomide was administered at two times; before and after the exposure to MPTP.
In both circumstances thalidomide improved the neurotoxicity induced by MPTP as
seen by a significant raise of the striatal contents of dopamine and simultaneous
decrease of monoamine-oxidase-B (MAO-B). These results indicate that in the
experimental model of Parkinson's disease the administration of thalidomide
improves the functional damage on the nigrostriatal cell substratum as seen by
the production of dopamine. This neuroprotective effect seems to be mediated by
inhibition of excitotoxicity. Our results suggest that thalidomide could be
investigated as potential adjuvant therapy for Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25724264  [PubMed - in process]


475. Neurology. 2015 Mar 31;84(13):1355-61. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001419. Epub
2015 Feb 27.

Neuropsychological outcome after deep brain stimulation for Parkinson disease.

Odekerken VJ(1), Boel JA(2), Geurtsen GJ(2), Schmand BA(2), Dekker IP(2), de Haan
RJ(2), Schuurman PR(2), de Bie RM(2); NSTAPS Study Group.

Collaborators: Odekerken VJ, Boel JA, van Laar T, Staal MJ, Mosch A, Hoffmann CF,
Nijssen PC, Beute GN, van Vugt JP, Mathieu WP, Contarino MF, Mink MS, Bour LJ,
van den Munckhof P, Geurtsen GJ, Schmand BA, de Haan RJ, Schuurman PR, de Bie RM.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (V.J.J.O., J.A.B., G.J.G., B.A.S., I.P.D.,
R.M.A.d.B.), the Clinical Research Unit (R.J.d.H.), and the Department of
Neurosurgery (P.R.S.), Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam; and the Department of 
Psychology (J.A.B., B.A.S.), University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
v.j.odekerken@amc.uva.nl. (2)From the Department of Neurology (V.J.J.O., J.A.B., 
G.J.G., B.A.S., I.P.D., R.M.A.d.B.), the Clinical Research Unit (R.J.d.H.), and
the Department of Neurosurgery (P.R.S.), Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam; and 
the Department of Psychology (J.A.B., B.A.S.), University of Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the neuropsychological outcome 12 months after bilateral
deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus pars interna (GPi) or
subthalamic nucleus (STN) for advanced Parkinson disease.
METHODS: We randomly assigned patients to receive either GPi DBS or STN DBS.
Standardized neuropsychological tests were performed at baseline and after 12
months. Patients and study assessors were masked to treatment allocation.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis of change scores indicated group differences on
Stroop word reading and Stroop color naming (confidence interval [CI] 1.9-10.0
and 2.1-8.8), on Trail Making Test B (CI 0.5-10.3), and on Wechsler Adult
Intelligence Scale similarities (CI -0.01 to 1.5), with STN DBS showing greater
negative change than GPi DBS. No differences were found between GPi DBS and STN
DBS on the other neuropsychological tests. Older age and better semantic fluency 
at baseline predicted cognitive decline after DBS.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no clinically significant differences in neuropsychological
outcome between GPi DBS and STN DBS. No satisfactory explanation is available for
the predictive value of baseline semantic fluency for cognitive decline.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class I evidence that there is no
large difference in neuropsychological outcome between GPi DBS and STN DBS after 
12 months. The study lacks the precision to exclude a moderate difference in
outcomes.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25724233  [PubMed - in process]


476. Neurology. 2015 Mar 31;84(13):1360. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001432. Epub 2015 
Feb 27.

Comment: New insights on cognition after deep brain stimulation in Parkinson
disease.

Massano J(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Mental Health, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Porto; the Department of Neurology, Hospital Pedro
Hispano/ULS Matosinhos; and the Neurocognition and Dementia Unit, Hospital CUF
Porto, Portugal.

PMID: 25724230  [PubMed - in process]


477. Curr Protoc Mouse Biol. 2014 Sep 3;4(3):121-39. doi:
10.1002/9780470942390.mo140092.

Overview of mouse models of Parkinson's disease.

Bobela W(1), Zheng L, Schneider BL.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Mind Institute, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL),
Lausanne, Switzerland; These authors contributed equally to this work.

Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of 
neurons in specific regions of the nervous system, notably in the substantia
nigra pars compacta and, in most cases, by the deposition of intraneuronal
inclusions named Lewy bodies. These pathological alterations have profound
effects on the brain function, leading to the progressive development of various 
symptoms, the most prominent being the impaired initiation of voluntary movements
caused by the loss of dopamine signaling in the basal ganglia. Here, we provide
an overview of the mouse models of Parkinson's disease, with the goal of guiding 
selection of the most appropriate model for studying the question at hand.
Pharmacological approaches targeting dopamine signaling and toxins leading to
selective degeneration of nigral neurons are used to validate symptomatic
treatments that aim at restoring effective dopaminergic function for motor
control. Alternative mouse models are based on genetic modifications that are
meant to reproduce the inherited alterations associated with familial forms of
Parkinson's disease. Although genetic models have most often failed to induce
overt degeneration of nigral dopaminergic neurons, they provide essential tools
to explore the multifactorial etiology of this complex neurodegenerative
disorder.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

PMID: 25723963  [PubMed - in process]


478. Curr Med Chem. 2015;22(13):1573-81.

Mechanisms of neurodegeration in type 2 diabetes and the neuroprotective
potential of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors.

Matteucci E(1), Giampietro O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Italy.
matteucci@med.unipi.it.

Prospective epidemiological studies suggest that type 2 diabetes is a risk factor
for neurodegenerative pathologies such as Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia,
and Parkinson disease. Drugs that act as incretin receptor agonists or inhibit
the proteolytic degradation of incretins (dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors) have
been approved since 2005 for use in diabetes treatment. Dipeptidyl peptidase 4
(DPP4) cleaves N-terminal dipeptides from polypeptides when the second residue is
proline, hydroxyproline, dehydroproline or alanine. The inhibition of DPP4
hydrolytic activities extends the halflife of these peptides by preventing their 
degradation. Several peptides have been identified as DPP4 substrates, including 
neuropeptides, chemokines, and the incretin hormones; hence the pleomorphic
effects of DPP4 inhibition. Recently, the neuroprotective properties of these
drugs have been evaluated in cell cultures and animal models, not yet in human
trials. Although mechanisms distinct from glycaemic control alone have been
claimed to account for protection against neuronal degeneration, the precise
cellular mechanism by which DPP4 inhibitors exert their neuroprotective effects
remain unknown. The present review is focused on the candidate pathways that
could be involved in mediating DPP4 inhibitors-mediated protection against
neuronal degeneration.

PMID: 25723507  [PubMed - in process]


479. Phys Rev Lett. 2015 Feb 13;114(6):062004. Epub 2015 Feb 10.

Observation of two new Ξ(b)(-) baryon resonances.

Aaij R, Adeva B, Adinolfi M, Affolder A, Ajaltouni Z, Akar S, Albrecht J, Alessio
F, Alexander M, Ali S, Alkhazov G, Alvarez Cartelle P, Alves AA Jr, Amato S,
Amerio S, Amhis Y, An L, Anderlini L, Anderson J, Andreassen R, Andreotti M,
Andrews JE, Appleby RB, Aquines Gutierrez O, Archilli F, Artamonov A, Artuso M,
Aslanides E, Auriemma G, Baalouch M, Bachmann S, Back JJ, Badalov A, Baesso C,
Baldini W, Barlow RJ, Barschel C, Barsuk S, Barter W, Batozskaya V, Battista V,
Bay A, Beaucourt L, Beddow J, Bedeschi F, Bediaga I, Belogurov S, Belous K,
Belyaev I, Ben-Haim E, Bencivenni G, Benson S, Benton J, Berezhnoy A, Bernet R,
Bertolin A, Bettler MO, van Beuzekom M, Bien A, Bifani S, Bird T, Bizzeti A,
Bjørnstad PM, Blake T, Blanc F, Blouw J, Blusk S, Bocci V, Bondar A, Bondar N,
Bonivento W, Borghi S, Borgia A, Borsato M, Bowcock TJ, Bowen E, Bozzi C, Brett
D, Britsch M, Britton T, Brodzicka J, Brook NH, Bursche A, Buytaert J, Cadeddu S,
Calabrese R, Calvi M, Calvo Gomez M, Campana P, Campora Perez D, Capriotti L,
Carbone A, Carboni G, Cardinale R, Cardini A, Carson L, Carvalho Akiba K,
Casanova Mohr RC, Casse G, Cassina L, Castillo Garcia L, Cattaneo M, Cauet Ch,
Cenci R, Charles M, Charpentier P, Chefdeville M, Chen S, Cheung SF, Chiapolini
N, Chrzaszcz M, Cid Vidal X, Ciezarek G, Clarke PE, Clemencic M, Cliff HV,
Closier J, Coco V, Cogan J, Cogneras E, Cogoni V, Cojocariu L, Collazuol G,
Collins P, Comerma-Montells A, Contu A, Cook A, Coombes M, Coquereau S, Corti G, 
Corvo M, Counts I, Couturier B, Cowan GA, Craik DC, Crocombe AC, Cruz Torres M,
Cunliffe S, Currie R, D'Ambrosio C, Dalseno J, David P, David PN, Davis A, De
Bruyn K, De Capua S, De Cian M, De Miranda JM, De Paula L, De Silva W, De Simone 
P, Dean CT, Decamp D, Deckenhoff M, Del Buono L, Déléage N, Derkach D, Deschamps 
O, Dettori F, Dey B, Di Canto A, Di Domenico A, Dijkstra H, Donleavy S, Dordei F,
Dorigo M, Dosil Suárez A, Dossett D, Dovbnya A, Dreimanis K, Dujany G, Dupertuis 
F, Durante P, Dzhelyadin R, Dziurda A, Dzyuba A, Easo S, Egede U, Egorychev V,
Eidelman S, Eisenhardt S, Eitschberger U, Ekelhof R, Eklund L, El Rifai I,
Elsasser Ch, Ely S, Esen S, Evans HM, Evans T, Falabella A, Färber C, Farinelli
C, Farley N, Farry S, Fay R, Ferguson D, Fernandez Albor V, Ferreira Rodrigues F,
Ferro-Luzzi M, Filippov S, Fiore M, Fiorini M, Firlej M, Fitzpatrick C, Fiutowski
T, Fol P, Fontana M, Fontanelli F, Forty R, Francisco O, Frank M, Frei C, Frosini
M, Fu J, Furfaro E, Gallas Torreira A, Galli D, Gallorini S, Gambetta S,
Gandelman M, Gandini P, Gao Y, García Pardiñas J, Garofoli J, Garra Tico J,
Garrido L, Gascon D, Gaspar C, Gastaldi U, Gauld R, Gavardi L, Gazzoni G, Geraci 
A, Gersabeck E, Gersabeck M, Gershon T, Ghez P, Gianelle A, Gianì S, Gibson V,
Giubega L, Gligorov VV, Göbel C, Golubkov D, Golutvin A, Gomes A, Gotti C,
Grabalosa Gándara M, Graciani Diaz R, Granado Cardoso LA, Graugés E, Graverini E,
Graziani G, Grecu A, Greening E, Gregson S, Griffith P, Grillo L, Grünberg O, Gui
B, Gushchin E, Guz Y, Gys T, Hadjivasiliou C, Haefeli G, Haen C, Haines SC, Hall 
S, Hamilton B, Hampson T, Han X, Hansmann-Menzemer S, Harnew N, Harnew ST,
Harrison J, He J, Head T, Heijne V, Hennessy K, Henrard P, Henry L, Hernando
Morata JA, van Herwijnen E, Hess M, Hicheur A, Hill D, Hoballah M, Hombach C,
Hulsbergen W, Hussain N, Hutchcroft D, Hynds D, Idzik M, Ilten P, Jacobsson R,
Jaeger A, Jalocha J, Jans E, Jaton P, Jawahery A, Jing F, John M, Johnson D,
Jones CR, Joram C, Jost B, Jurik N, Kandybei S, Kanso W, Karacson M, Karbach TM, 
Karodia S, Kelsey M, Kenyon IR, Ketel T, Khanji B, Khurewathanakul C, Klaver S,
Klimaszewski K, Kochebina O, Kolpin M, Komarov I, Koopman RF, Koppenburg P,
Korolev M, Kravchuk L, Kreplin K, Kreps M, Krocker G, Krokovny P, Kruse F,
Kucewicz W, Kucharczyk M, Kudryavtsev V, Kurek K, Kvaratskheliya T, La Thi VN,
Lacarrere D, Lafferty G, Lai A, Lambert D, Lambert RW, Lanfranchi G, Langenbruch 
C, Langhans B, Latham T, Lazzeroni C, Le Gac R, van Leerdam J, Lees JP, Lefèvre
R, Leflat A, Lefrançois J, Leroy O, Lesiak T, Leverington B, Li Y, Likhomanenko
T, Liles M, Lindner R, Linn C, Lionetto F, Liu B, Lohn S, Longstaff I, Lopes JH, 
Lowdon P, Lucchesi D, Luo H, Lupato A, Luppi E, Lupton O, Machefert F,
Machikhiliyan IV, Maciuc F, Maev O, Malde S, Malinin A, Manca G, Mancinelli G,
Mapelli A, Maratas J, Marchand JF, Marconi U, Marin Benito C, Marino P, Märki R, 
Marks J, Martellotti G, Martinelli M, Martinez Santos D, Martinez Vidal F,
Martins Tostes D, Massafferri A, Matev R, Mathe Z, Matteuzzi C, Mazurov A, McCann
M, McCarthy J, McNab A, McNulty R, McSkelly B, Meadows B, Meier F, Meissner M,
Merk M, Milanes DA, Minard MN, Moggi N, Molina Rodriguez J, Monteil S, Morandin
M, Morawski P, Mordà A, Morello MJ, Moron J, Morris AB, Mountain R, Muheim F,
Müller K, Mussini M, Muster B, Naik P, Nakada T, Nandakumar R, Nasteva I, Needham
M, Neri N, Neubert S, Neufeld N, Neuner M, Nguyen AD, Nguyen TD, Nguyen-Mau C,
Nicol M, Niess V, Niet R, Nikitin N, Nikodem T, Novoselov A, O'Hanlon DP,
Oblakowska-Mucha A, Obraztsov V, Ogilvy S, Okhrimenko O, Oldeman R, Onderwater
CJ, Orlandea M, Otalora Goicochea JM, Otto A, Owen P, Oyanguren A, Pal BK, Palano
A, Palombo F, Palutan M, Panman J, Papanestis A, Pappagallo M, Pappalardo LL,
Parkes C, Parkinson CJ, Passaleva G, Patel GD, Patel M, Patrignani C, Pearce A,
Pellegrino A, Penso G, Pepe Altarelli M, Perazzini S, Perret P, Pescatore L,
Pesen E, Petridis K, Petrolini A, Picatoste Olloqui E, Pietrzyk B, Pilař T, Pinci
D, Pistone A, Playfer S, Plo Casasus M, Polci F, Poluektov A, Polyakov I,
Polycarpo E, Popov A, Popov D, Popovici B, Potterat C, Price E, Price JD,
Prisciandaro J, Pritchard A, Prouve C, Pugatch V, Puig Navarro A, Punzi G, Qian
W, Rachwal B, Rademacker JH, Rakotomiaramanana B, Rama M, Rangel MS, Raniuk I,
Rauschmayr N, Raven G, Redi F, Reichert S, Reid MM, dos Reis AC, Ricciardi S,
Richards S, Rihl M, Rinnert K, Rives Molina V, Robbe P, Rodrigues AB, Rodrigues
E, Rodriguez Perez P, Roiser S, Romanovsky V, Romero Vidal A, Rotondo M, Rouvinet
J, Ruf T, Ruiz H, Ruiz Valls P, Saborido Silva JJ, Sagidova N, Sail P, Saitta B, 
Salustino Guimaraes V, Sanchez Mayordomo C, Sanmartin Sedes B, Santacesaria R,
Santamarina Rios C, Santovetti E, Sarti A, Satriano C, Satta A, Saunders DM,
Savrina D, Schiller M, Schindler H, Schlupp M, Schmelling M, Schmidt B, Schneider
O, Schopper A, Schune MH, Schwemmer R, Sciascia B, Sciubba A, Semennikov A, Sepp 
I, Serra N, Serrano J, Sestini L, Seyfert P, Shapkin M, Shapoval I, Shcheglov Y, 
Shears T, Shekhtman L, Shevchenko V, Shires A, Silva Coutinho R, Simi G, Sirendi 
M, Skidmore N, Skillicorn I, Skwarnicki T, Smith NA, Smith E, Smith E, Smith J,
Smith M, Snoek H, Sokoloff MD, Soler FJ, Soomro F, Souza D, Souza De Paula B,
Spaan B, Spradlin P, Sridharan S, Stagni F, Stahl M, Stahl S, Steinkamp O,
Stenyakin O, Sterpka F, Stevenson S, Stoica S, Stone S, Storaci B, Stracka S,
Straticiuc M, Straumann U, Stroili R, Sun L, Sutcliffe W, Swientek K, Swientek S,
Syropoulos V, Szczekowski M, Szczypka P, Szumlak T, T'Jampens S, Teklishyn M,
Tellarini G, Teubert F, Thomas C, Thomas E, van Tilburg J, Tisserand V, Tobin M, 
Todd J, Tolk S, Tomassetti L, Tonelli D, Topp-Joergensen S, Torr N, Tournefier E,
Tourneur S, Tran MT, Tresch M, Trisovic A, Tsaregorodtsev A, Tsopelas P, Tuning
N, Ubeda Garcia M, Ukleja A, Ustyuzhanin A, Uwer U, Vacca C, Vagnoni V, Valenti
G, Vallier A, Vazquez Gomez R, Vazquez Regueiro P, Vázquez Sierra C, Vecchi S,
Velthuis JJ, Veltri M, Veneziano G, Vesterinen M, Viana Barbosa JV, Viaud B,
Vieira D, Vieites Diaz M, Vilasis-Cardona X, Vollhardt A, Volyanskyy D, Voong D, 
Vorobyev A, Vorobyev V, Voss C, de Vries JA, Waldi R, Wallace C, Wallace R, Walsh
J, Wandernoth S, Wang J, Ward DR, Watson NK, Websdale D, Whitehead M, Wiedner D, 
Wilkinson G, Wilkinson M, Williams MP, Williams M, Wilschut HW, Wilson FF,
Wimberley J, Wishahi J, Wislicki W, Witek M, Wormser G, Wotton SA, Wright S,
Wyllie K, Xie Y, Xing Z, Xu Z, Yang Z, Yuan X, Yushchenko O, Zangoli M,
Zavertyaev M, Zhang L, Zhang WC, Zhang Y, Zhelezov A, Zhokhov A, Zhong L; LHCb
Collaboration.

Two structures are observed close to the kinematic threshold in the Ξ(b)(0)π(-)
mass spectrum in a sample of proton-proton collision data, corresponding to an
integrated luminosity of 3.0  fb(-1), recorded by the LHCb experiment. In the
quark model, two baryonic resonances with quark content bds are expected in this 
mass region: the spin-parity J(P)=(1/2)(+) and J(P)=(3/2)(+) states, denoted
Ξ(b)('-) and Ξ(b)(*-). Interpreting the structures as these resonances, we
measure the mass differences and the width of the heavier state to be
m(Ξ(b)('-))-m(Ξ(b)(0))-m(π(-))=3.653±0.018±0.006  MeV/c(2),
m(Ξ(b)(*-))-m(Ξ(b)(0))-m(π(-))=23.96±0.12±0.06  MeV/c(2),
Γ(Ξ(b)(*-))=1.65±0.31±0.10  MeV, where the first and second uncertainties are
statistical and systematic, respectively. The width of the lighter state is
consistent with zero, and we place an upper limit of Γ(Ξ(b)('-))<0.08  MeV at 95%
confidence level. Relative production rates of these states are also reported.

PMID: 25723210  [PubMed - in process]


480. Card Electrophysiol Clin. 2015 Mar;7(1):135-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ccep.2014.11.006.

Pediatric electrocardiographic imaging applications.

Silva JN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Washington University School of Medicine, 1 
Children’s Place, Campus Box 8116, Saint Louis, MO 63110, USA.
silva_j@kids.wustl.edu

Noninvasive electrocardiographic imaging (ECGI) has been used in pediatric and
congenital heart patients to better understand their electrophysiologic
substrates. In this article we focus on the 4 subjects related to pediatric ECGI:
(1) ECGI in patients with congenital heart disease and Wolff–Parkinson–White
syndrome, (2) ECGI in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and
preexcitation, (3) ECGI in pediatric patients with Wolff–Parkinson–White
syndrome, and (4) ECGI for pediatric cardiac resynchronization therapy.

PMCID: PMC4337427 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25722754  [PubMed]


481. J Electrocardiol. 2015 May-Jun;48(3):356-61. doi:
10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2014.12.019. Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) and athletes: Darwin at play?

Ceresnak SR(1), Dubin AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology and Pediatric Electrophysiology, Department
of Pediatrics, Stanford University-Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, 750 Welch 
Road, Suite 305, Palo Alto, CA, USA. Electronic address: ceresnak@yahoo.com.
(2)Division of Pediatric Cardiology and Pediatric Electrophysiology, Department
of Pediatrics, Stanford University-Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, 750 Welch 
Road, Suite 305, Palo Alto, CA, USA.

PMID: 25722079  [PubMed - in process]


482. Magn Reson Imaging. 2015 Jun;33(5):559-65. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2015.02.021. Epub
2015 Feb 24.

Quantifying brain iron deposition in patients with Parkinson's disease using
quantitative susceptibility mapping, R2 and R2.

Barbosa JH(1), Santos AC(2), Tumas V(2), Liu M(3), Zheng W(3), Haacke EM(4),
Salmon CE(5).

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão Preto, University of São
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:
jeamharoldo@hotmail.com. (2)Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil. (3)MRI Institute for Biomedical
Research, Detroit, MI, United States. (4)MRI Institute for Biomedical Research,
Detroit, MI, United States; Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, United States.
(5)Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão Preto, University of São
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of quantitative magnetic
resonance (MR) iron mapping including R2, R2* and magnetic susceptibility to
differentiate patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) from healthy controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty (30) healthy controls (HC) (64±7years old) and 20
patients with idiopathic PD (66±8years old) were studied using a 3T MR imaging
scanner. R2 maps were generated from GRASE sequence while R2*, and quantitative
susceptibility mapping (QSM) were obtained from a conventional multi-echo
gradient-echo sequence. R2, R2* and relative susceptibility (Δχ) values of
structures in the basal ganglia were measured for each patient and control. An
analysis of sensitivity and specificity and unpaired t-test was applied to the
two groups.
RESULTS: A significant difference (p<0.05) was found for R2 and ∆χ values in the 
substantia nigra as a whole and in the pars compacta for PD patients. The R2*
values were different significantly (p<0.05) only on the substantia nigra pars
compacta. QSM presented the highest sensitivity and specificity to differentiate 
the two populations.
CONCLUSION: The QSM map was the most sensitive quantitative technique for
detecting a significant increase of iron for PD. The highest significant
difference between controls and patients was found in the substantia nigra pars
compacta using QSM.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25721997  [PubMed - in process]


483. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Feb 26. [Epub ahead of print]

Load-Dependent Interference of Deep Brain Stimulation of the Subthalamic Nucleus 
with Switching from Automatic to Controlled Processing During Random Number
Generation in Parkinson's Disease.

Williams IA(1), Wilkinson L(1), Limousin P(1), Jahanshahi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience & Movement Disorders, UCL Institute of
Neurology, The National Hospital for Neurology & Neurosurgery, London, UK.

Background: Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS)
ameliorates the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, some aspects
of executive control are impaired with STN DBS. Objective: We tested the
prediction that (i) STN-DBS interferes with switching from automatic to
controlled processing during fast-paced random number generation (RNG) (ii)
STN-DBS-induced cognitive control changes are load-dependent. Methods: Fifteen PD
patients with bilateral STN-DBS performed paced-RNG, under three levels of
cognitive load synchronised with a pacing stimulus presented at 1, 0.5 and 0.33
Hz (faster rates require greater cognitive control), with DBS on or off. Measures
of output randomness were calculated. Countscore 1 (CS1) indicates habitual
counting in steps of one (CS1). Countscore 2 (CS2) indicates a more controlled
strategy of counting in twos. Results: The fastest rate was associated with an
increased CS1 score with STN-DBS on compared to off. At the slowest rate,
patients had higher CS2 scores with DBS off than on, such that the differences
between CS1 and CS2 scores disappeared. Conclusions: We provide evidence for a
load-dependent effect of STN-DBS on paced RNG in PD. Patients could switch to
more controlled RNG strategies during conditions of low cognitive load at slower 
rates only when the STN stimulators were off, but when STN stimulation was on,
they engaged in more automatic habitual counting under increased cognitive load. 
These findings are consistent with the proposal that the STN implements a switch 
signal from the medial frontal cortex which enables a shift from automatic to
controlled processing.

PMID: 25720447  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


484. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Feb 26. [Epub ahead of print]

The Profile of Long-term Parkinson's Disease Survivors with 20 Years of Disease
Duration and Beyond.

Hassan A(1), Wu SS(2), Schmidt P(3), Simuni T(4), Giladi N(5), Miyasaki JM(6),
Bloem BR(7), Malaty IA(8), Okun MS(8).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Movement Disorders & Neurorestoration, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida, USA Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota, USA. (2)Department of Statistics, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida, USA. (3)National Parkinson's Foundation, Miami, Florida, USA.
(4)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Center, Northwestern University
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA. (5)Movement Disorders Unit, 
Department of Neurology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (6)The Movement Disorders
Centre, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (7)Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center,
Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behavior, Department of Neurology,
Nijmegen, Netherlands. (8)Center for Movement Disorders & Neurorestoration,
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.

Background: Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with 20 years or more survival
(PD-20) are not well characterized. Objective: To evaluate PD-20 patient
characteristics and identify areas for improvement of their health care. Methods:
The international, multicenter National Parkinson's Foundation Quality
Improvement Initiative (NPF-QII) study database was queried to identify PD-20
subjects. Demographic and clinical data were analyzed. Results: We identified 187
PD-20 subjects (55% men) representing 4% (187/4,619) of all NPF-QII participants.
Subjects were mean age 69.5 years; mean age at PD onset was 44.0 years. The
majority (75%) had 20-25 years of PD duration, the longest duration being 49
years. They were median Hoehn and Yahr stage 3, and 75% had motor fluctuations.
Half (54%) reported exercising. The majority (89%) were living at home and
required a caregiver (88%). They were mildly cognitively impaired for age
(Montreal Cognitive Assessment estimate 22.6 ± 3.7), with most deficits in verbal
fluency and delayed recall. Quality of life (Parkinson's Disease Quality of Life 
Questionnaire index 36 ± 15%) was mild to moderately impaired, with most
impairment in mobility and activities of daily living. Caregiver strain measured 
by the Multidimensional Caregiver Strain Index (27 ± 16%), recorded highest
subscores in social constraint. PD-20 subjects aged <70 years versus ≥$70 only
differed significantly by worse cognition (P < 0.0001). Conclusions: PD-20
subjects reflect an elite group of PD survivors with early-onset disease and
relatively mild cognitive disability despite long disease duration. Interventions
for caregivers, mobility, and activities of daily living are areas that could
improve caregiver burden and patient quality of life.

PMID: 25720446  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


485. J Alzheimers Dis. 2015 Feb 26. [Epub ahead of print]

From Neurodegeneration to Brain Health: An Integrated Approach.

Petersen RB(1), Lissemore FM(2), Appleby B(3), Aggarwal N(4), Boyatzis R(5),
Casadesus G(6), Cummings J(7), Jack A(8), Perry G(9), Safar J(1), Sajatovic
M(10), Surewicz W(11), Wang Y(12), Whitehouse P(2), Lerner A(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA
Department of Neurology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA. 
(3)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA
Department of Neurology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA
Department of Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Departments of Organizational Behavior, Cognitive Science, and Psychology,
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA. (6)Department of Biology,
Kent State University, Kent, OH, USA. (7)Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for
Brain Health, Las Vegas, NV, USA. (8)Department of Philosophy, Case Western
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA. (9)Department of Biology, University of
Texas, San Antonio, TX, USA. (10)Department of Neurology, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, OH, USA Department of Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, OH, USA. (11)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA. (12)Departments of Radiology,
Chemistry, and Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH, USA. (13)Department of Neurology, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH, USA Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH, USA.

The term "brain health" integrates general health and well-being with cognitive
fitness, in the context of an environment that includes the spectrum of positive 
and negative factors affecting the individual. Brain health incorporates the
effects of neurodegeneration in an ecological sense and the effects of
environment and health practices on brain function. It also provides a framework 
for understanding and maximizing cognitive function across the lifespan. Despite 
decades of research into the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, our
understanding of how to treat them is relatively rudimentary. Unidimensional
approaches, such as medication monotherapies, have generally produced negative
results in treatment trials. New integrative paradigms that cut across the
molecular and cellular level, to the individual and societal level may provide
new approaches to understand and treat these disorders. This report on
proceedings of a multi-disciplinary conference held in Cleveland, Ohio, in
October 2013 summarizes research progress in understanding neurodegenerative
disorders in a brain health context. A new "brain health" paradigm is essential
to finally understand neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and
overcome the relative stand-still in therapeutics research that has characterized
the last decade. The authors summarize progress in these emerging areas with the 
aim of producing new integrated scientific models for understanding brain health,
potentially modifying disease course and advancing care for individuals and
families affected by neurodegenerative conditions.

PMID: 25720413  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


486. Ideggyogy Sz. 2014 Nov 30;67(11-12):385-9.

[Experience with levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel in the treatment of advanced
Parkinson's disease in Hungary].

[Article in Hungarian]

Nagy H, Takáts A, Tóth A, Bereczki D, Klivényi P, Dézsi L, Dibó G, Vécsei L,
Kovács N, Aschermann Z, Komoly S, Varannai L, Zemlényi G, Valikovics A.

In the advanced Parkison's disease (PD) the late complications of levodopa
therapy have to be considered: motor and/or non-motor fluctuations with or
without disturbing dyskinesias. The non-motor fluctuations often influence the
quality of life (QoL) in a much more negative way compared with the motor
symptoms. In the treatment of advanced PD there are several device-aided methods 
- deep brain stimulation, apomorphine pump, levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel
(LCIG) - to improve the symptoms, the QoL, sometimes even in an individual,
tailored custom form. The LCIG therapy was introduced in Hungary in 2011. Here we
summarize the data of our patients: we have tested almost 60 patients and in 43
cases we have started this treatment. We analyze the duration of illness,
levodopa therapy, motor and non-motor fluctuation of patients and present our
experiences with the test phase and the chronic LCIG therapy via PEG/PEJ
implantation. We paid attention to the surgery and device - depending side
effects. Our experiences are similar to the international data. In patients
selection ,,the right treatment, to the right patient, in the right time" is of
importance.

PMID: 25720240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Glaucoma. 2015 Feb 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of Optical Coherence Tomography Findings in Patients With Primary
Open-angle Glaucoma and Parkinson Disease.

Eraslan M(1), Balci SY, Cerman E, Temel A, Suer D, Elmaci NT.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Ophthalmology ‡Neurology, School of Medicine, Marmara
University, Istanbul †Igdir State Hospital, Igdir, Turkey.

PURPOSE:: To evaluate the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL),
ganglion cell complex, and macular thickness as well as their correlation with
the severity of diseases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:: This is a cross-sectional study and comparing both eyes
of 26 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, 25 patients with Parkinson
disease (PD), and 23 healthy subjects. RNFL, ganglion cell complex, and macular
thickness were measured and analyzed with optical coherence tomography (OCT) in
all cases and correlation with severity of the disease was assessed in PD group.
RESULTS:: The mean RNFL of PD was significantly thinner compared with controls
(P=0.002). In glaucoma group, the mean RNFL was significantly thinner
(96.28±12.49 μm) than PD (105.43±13.45 μm) and the controls (113.75±8.53 μm)
(P<0.001; P<0.001, respectively). The global loss volume (GLV) rates in the
glaucoma and PD group were significantly higher than controls, respectively
(P=0.006; P<0.001/P=0.002, P=0.013). However, the GLV rate was significantly
lower in PD group compared with glaucoma group (P=0.001). There was no
significant correlation between OCT measurements and disease duration or severity
in the PD patients.
CONCLUSIONS:: Although RNFL thickness and GLV changes may show the ganglion cell 
loss in both disease but none of the OCT parameters are correlated with the
severity of PD. OCT may help to reveal the ganglion cell damage but may not help 
in determination of severity during the clinical follow-up of PD patients.

PMID: 25719240  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


488. J Biol Chem. 2015 Apr 17;290(16):10325-35. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.624767. Epub
2015 Feb 25.

Nitric Oxide Induction of Parkin Translocation in PTEN-induced Putative Kinase 1 
(PINK1) Deficiency: FUNCTIONAL ROLE OF NEURONAL NITRIC OXIDE SYNTHASE DURING
MITOPHAGY.

Han JY(1), Kang MJ(2), Kim KH(1), Han PL(1), Kim HS(3), Ha JY(2), Son JH(4).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Brain Disease Research
Institute. (2)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
and. (3)Department of Life Science, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 120-750, South 
Korea. (4)From the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Brain Disease
Research Institute, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of
Pharmacy, and hjson@ewha.ac.kr.

The failure to trigger mitophagy is implicated in the pathogenesis of familial
Parkinson disease that is caused by PINK1 or Parkin mutations. According to the
prevailing PINK1-Parkin signaling model, mitophagy is promoted by the
mitochondrial translocation of Parkin, an essential PINK1-dependent step that
occurs via a previously unknown mechanism. Here we determined that critical
concentrations of NO was sufficient to induce the mitochondrial translocation of 
Parkin even in PINK1 deficiency, with apparent increased interaction of
full-length PINK1 accumulated during mitophagy, with neuronal nitric oxide
synthase (nNOS). Specifically, optimum levels of NO enabled PINK1-null
dopaminergic neuronal cells to regain the mitochondrial translocation of Parkin, 
which appeared to be significantly suppressed by nNOS-null mutation. Moreover,
nNOS-null mutation resulted in the same mitochondrial electron transport chain
(ETC) enzyme deficits as PINK1-null mutation. The involvement of mitochondrial
nNOS activation in mitophagy was further confirmed by the greatly increased
interactions of full-length PINK1 with nNOS, accompanied by mitochondrial
accumulation of phospho-nNOS (Ser(1412)) during mitophagy. Of great interest is
that the L347P PINK1 mutant failed to bind to nNOS. The loss of nNOS
phosphorylation and Parkin accumulation on PINK1-deficient mitochondria could be 
reversed in a PINK1-dependent manner. Finally, non-toxic levels of NO treatment
aided in the recovery of PINK1-null dopaminergic neuronal cells from
mitochondrial ETC enzyme deficits. In summary, we demonstrated the full-length
PINK1-dependent recruitment of nNOS, its activation in the induction of Parkin
translocation, and the feasibility of NO-based pharmacotherapy for defective
mitophagy and ETC enzyme deficits in Parkinson disease.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4400344 [Available on 2016-04-17]
PMID: 25716315  [PubMed - in process]


489. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2015;14(3):313-24.

Inflammatory and cell death pathways in brain and peripheral blood in Parkinson's
disease.

Macchi B(1), Di Paola R, Marino-Merlo F, Felice MR, Cuzzocrea S, Mastino A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of System Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Via
Montpellier 1, 00133 Rome, Italy. macchi@uniroma2.it.

Evidence has been accumulated showing that inflammatory and cell death pathways
are altered both in brain and periphery during Parkinson disease (PD). Neuronal
loss in PD is associated with chronic neuroinflammation characterized by
microglia activation through the release of reactive oxygen radicals, cytokines, 
and Prostaglandin E2. The release of these inflammatory mediators in addition to 
deprivation in growth factors and increase of calcium and dopamine seem
implicated in triggering apoptosis. The interaction of leucine-rich repeat kinase
and Fas- Associated protein with Death Domain has been implicated in the
switching-on of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway via caspase-8 activation, while
deficiency in PTEN induced putative kinase 1 has been shown to cause Ca2+
accumulation in mitochondria, increased generation of reactive oxygen species and
intrinsic cell death. Autophagy/mitophagy appears to be impaired in the brain
during PD; this impairment could be related to defective degradation of mutant
α-synuclein and consequent apoptotic cell death. Regarding the peripheral blood, 
reduced amounts of dopamine, reduced levels of immunoreactivity for tyrosine
hydroxylase and dopamine active transporter, and alterations of dopamine receptor
expression have been detected in mononuclear cells from PD patients. In addition,
mononuclear cells from PD patients show mitochondrial, ubiquitin-proteasome
system dysfunction and up-regulation of α-synuclein gene, associated to high
expression of the Fas molecule, activation of caspase-3 and -9 and proneness to
apoptosis. These and other observations reported in this mini-review suggest that
a better understanding of molecular dysfunctions in inflammatory and cell
death/autophagy pathways, both in the brain and peripheral blood, could provide
useful targets for future investigation on drug-discovery and biomarker
identification in PD.

PMID: 25714978  [PubMed - in process]


490. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2015 Apr 3;11(4):922-30. doi:
10.1080/21645515.2015.1012033.

Evaluation of an α synuclein sensitized dendritic cell based vaccine in a
transgenic mouse model of Parkinson disease.

Ugen KE(1), Lin X, Bai G, Liang Z, Cai J, Li K, Song S, Cao C, Sanchez-Ramos J.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Molecular Medicine ; University of South Florida; Morsani
College of Medicine ; Tampa , FL USA.

In order to develop a cell-based vaccine against the Parkinson disease (PD)
associated protein α-synuclein (α-Syn) 3 peptides were synthesized based upon
predicted B cell epitopes within the full length α-Syn protein sequence. These
peptide fragments as well as the full length recombinant human α-Syn (rh- α-Syn) 
protein were used to sensitize mouse bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DC) ex 
vivo, followed by intravenous delivery of these sensitized DCs into transgenic
(Tg) mice expressing the human A53T variant of α-Syn. ELISA analysis and testing 
of behavioral locomotor function by rotometry were performed on all mice after
the 5th vaccination as well as just prior to euthanasia. The results indicated
that vaccination with peptide sensitized DCs (PSDC) as well as DCs sensitized by 
rh-α-Syn induced specific anti-α-Syn antibodies in all immunized mice. In terms
of rotometry performance, a measure of locomotor activity correlated to brain
dopamine levels, mice vaccinated with PSDC or rh- α-Syn sensitized DCs performed 
significantly better than non-vaccinated Tg control mice during the final
assessment (i.e. at 17 months of age) before euthanasia. As well, measurement of 
levels of brain IL-1α, a cytokine hypothesized to be associated with
neuroinflammation, demonstrated that this proinflammatory molecule was
significantly reduced in the PSDC and rh- α-Syn sensitized DC vaccinated mice
compared to the non-vaccinated Tg control group. Overall, α-Syn
antigen-sensitized DC vaccination was effective in generating specific anti-
α-Syn antibodies and improved locomotor function without eliciting an apparent
general inflammatory response, indicating that this strategy may be a safe and
effective treatment for PD.

PMID: 25714663  [PubMed - in process]


491. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2015 Feb 3;7(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s13195-014-0081-2.
eCollection 2015.

Long-term donepezil use for dementia with Lewy bodies: results from an open-label
extension of Phase III trial.

Mori E(1), Ikeda M(2), Nagai R(3), Matsuo K(3), Nakagawa M(3), Kosaka K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral Neurology and Cognitive Neuroscience, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, 2-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai,
Miyagi 980-8575 Japan. (2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Life
Sciences, Kumamoto University, 1-1-1 Honjo, Chuo-ku, Kumamoto 860-8556 Japan.
(3)Eisai Product Creation Systems, Eisai Co., Ltd., 4-6-10 Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 112-8088 Japan. (4)Department of Psychiatry, Yokohama City University
School of Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 236-0004 Japan.

INTRODUCTION: The long-term efficacy and safety of donepezil 10 mg in patients
with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) were investigated in a 52-week Phase 3
trial.
METHODS: This 52-week study consisted of 16-week randomized placebo-controlled
(RCT) and 36-week open-label extension phases. Of 142 DLB patients enrolled in
the RCT phase (three arms: placebo, 5 mg, and 10 mg), 110 entered the extension
phase. The placebo group of the RCT phase initiated active treatment at week 16, 
and the active groups maintained allocated treatment and dosages until week 24.
After week 24, all patients received 10 mg. Dose reduction to 5 mg for safety
concerns was allowed. Efficacy measures included Mini-Mental State Examination
(MMSE) for cognitive function and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) for behavioral
symptoms. Safety evaluations included adverse events (AEs) and the unified
Parkinson disease rating scale.
RESULTS: In total, 100 subjects completed the study. Cognitive function
improvement was sustained for 52 weeks (MMSE at week 52 in 10 mg: 2.8 ± 3.5
(mean ± standard deviation); P <0.001, Student paired t test)). Those who
received placebo in the RCT phase showed an improvement after starting active
treatment. NPI improved in all the groups throughout the study, including the
placebo period. In the subgroup of the 5 mg group without remarkable cognitive or
behavioral improvement at week 24, further improvement was observed after a dose 
increase to 10 mg. After week 24, 21 patients experienced dose reduction. The
incidence of any AEs did not increase over time.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term administration of donepezil at 10 mg/day improved
cognitive function for up to 52 weeks in patients with DLB without increasing the
risk of clinically significant safety events.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT01278407. Trial registration date: January 14, 2011.

PMCID: PMC4338564
PMID: 25713600  [PubMed]


492. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2015;2015:926284. doi: 10.1155/2015/926284.
Epub 2015 Feb 1.

The Effect of Crocus sativus L. and Its Constituents on Memory: Basic Studies and
Clinical Applications.

Pitsikas N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of Thessaly, Panepistimiou 3, Biopolis, 41500 Larissa, Greece.

Memory-related disorders are a common public health issue. Memory impairment is
frequent in degenerative diseases (such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson
disease), cerebral injuries, and schizophrenia. The dried stigma of the plant
Crocus sativus L. (C. sativus), commonly known as saffron, is used in folk
medicine for various purposes. Several lines of evidence suggest that C. sativus 
and its constituents are implicated in cognition. Here we critically review
advances in research of these emerging molecular targets for the treatment of
memory disorders, and discuss their advantages over currently used cognitive
enhancers as well remaining challenges. Current analysis has shown that C.
sativus and its components might be a promising target for cognition impairments.

PMCID: PMC4331467
PMID: 25713594  [PubMed]


493. Brain. 2015 Mar;138(Pt 3):512-4. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu392.

Imaging in Parkinson's disease: time to look below the neck.

Stoessl AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Parkinson's Research Centre and National Parkinson Foundation Centre
of Excellence, Division of Neurology and Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain
Health, University of British Columbia and Vancouver Coastal Health, 2211
Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC Canada V6T 2B5 jstoessl@mail.ubc.ca.

Comment on
    Brain. 2015 Mar;138(Pt 3):616-31.

PMID: 25713402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Occup Environ Med. 2015 Feb 23. pii: oemed-2014-102209. doi:
10.1136/oemed-2014-102209. [Epub ahead of print]

Occupational exposures and Parkinson's disease mortality in a prospective Dutch
cohort.

Brouwer M(1), Koeman T(1), van den Brandt PA(2), Kromhout H(1), Schouten LJ(2),
Peters S(3), Huss A(1), Vermeulen R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Environmental Epidemiology, Institute for Risk Assessment
Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands. (2)Department of
Epidemiology, GROW School of Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht
University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands. (3)Department of
Occupational Respiratory Epidemiology, School of Population Health, University of
Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia. (4)Division of
Environmental Epidemiology, Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht
University, Utrecht, The Netherlands Julius Centre for Public Health Sciences and
Primary Care, Utrecht University Medical Centre, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: We investigated the association between six occupational exposures
(ie, pesticides, solvents, metals, diesel motor emissions (DME), extremely low
frequency magnetic fields (ELF-MF) and electric shocks) and Parkinson's disease
(PD) mortality in a large population-based prospective cohort study.
METHODS: The Netherlands Cohort Study on diet and cancer enrolled 58 279 men and 
62 573 women aged 55-69 years in 1986. Participants were followed up for
cause-specific mortality over 17.3 years, until December 2003, resulting in 402
male and 207 female PD deaths. Following a case-cohort design, a subcohort of
5 000 participants was randomly sampled from the complete cohort. Information on 
occupational history and potential confounders was collected at baseline.
Job-exposure matrices were applied to assign occupational exposures. Associations
with PD mortality were evaluated using Cox regression.
RESULTS: Among men, elevated HRs were observed for exposure to pesticides (eg,
ever high exposed, HR 1.27, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.88) and ever high exposed to ELF-MF 
(HR 1.54, 95% CI 1.00 to 2.36). No association with exposure duration or trend in
cumulative exposure was observed for any of the occupational exposures. Results
among women were unstable due to small numbers of high-exposed women.
CONCLUSIONS: Associations with PD mortality were observed for occupational
exposure to pesticides and ELF-MF. However, the weight given to these findings is
limited by the absence of a monotonic trend with either duration or cumulative
exposure. No associations were found between PD mortality and occupational
exposure to solvents, metals, DME or electric shocks.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25713156  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


495. Autoimmun Rev. 2015 Feb 21. pii: S1568-9972(15)00050-6. doi:
10.1016/j.autrev.2015.02.006. [Epub ahead of print]

P-glycoprotein in autoimmune rheumatic diseases.

García-Carrasco M(1), Mendoza-Pinto C(2), Macias Díaz S(3), Vera-Recabarren M(4),
Vázquez de Lara L(5), Méndez Martínez S(6), Soto-Santillán P(7), González-Ramírez
R(8), Ruiz-Arguelles A(9).

Author information: 
(1)Systemic Autoimmune Diseases Research Unit, Hospital General Regional No. 36, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Puebla, Mexico; Department of Immunology
and Rheumatology, Medicine School, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma dePuebla,
Puebla, Mexico. Electronic address: mgc30591@yahoo.com. (2)Systemic Autoimmune
Diseases Research Unit, Hospital General Regional No. 36, Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social, Puebla, Mexico; Department of Immunology and Rheumatology,
Medicine School, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma dePuebla, Puebla, Mexico.
Electronic address: cmp_26@yahoo.com.mx. (3)Systemic Autoimmune Diseases Research
Unit, Hospital General Regional No. 36, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social,
Puebla, Mexico. Electronic address: kartagener@live.com.mx. (4)Departament of
Dermatology, Indisa Clinic Santiago de Chile, Chile. Electronic address:
drmauricio.vera@indisa.cl. (5)Departament of Experimental Medicine, Medicine
School, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, Puebla, Mexico. Electronic
address: lvazdela@yahoo.com.mx. (6)Systemic Autoimmune Diseases Research Unit,
Hospital General Regional No. 36, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Puebla,
Mexico. Electronic address: soco_6914@hotmail.com. (7)Systemic Autoimmune
Diseases Research Unit, Hospital General Regional No. 36, Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social, Puebla, Mexico. Electronic address: pamss1721@yahoo.com.
(8)Systemic Autoimmune Diseases Research Unit, Hospital General Regional No. 36, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Puebla, Mexico. Electronic address:
rebekita_@live.com.mx. (9)Laboratorios Clinicos de Puebla, Puebla, Mexico;
Universidad de las Américas Puebla, Mexico. Electronic address:
aruiz@clinicaruiz.com.

P-glycoprotein (Pgp) is a transmembrane protein of 170kD encoded by the multidrug
resistance 1 (MDR-1) gene, localized on chromosome 7. More than 50 polymorphisms 
of the MDR-1 gene have been described; a subset of these has been shown to play a
pathophysiological role in the development of inflammatory bowel disease, femoral
head osteonecrosis induced by steroids, lung cancer and renal epithelial tumors. 
Polymorphisms that have a protective effect on the development of conditions such
as Parkinson disease have also been identified. P-glycoprotein belongs to the
adenosine triphosphate binding cassette transporter superfamily and its structure
comprises a chain of approximately 1280 aminoacid residues with an N-C terminal
structure, arranged as 2 homologous halves, each of which has 6 transmembrane
segments, with a total of 12 segments with 2 cytoplasmic nucleotide binding
domains. Many cytokines like interleukin 2 and tumor necrosis factor alpha
increase Pgp expression and activity. Pgp functions as an efflux pump for a
variety of toxins in order to protect particular organs and tissues as the
central nervous system. Pgp transports a variety of substrates including
glucocorticoids while other drugs such as tacrolimus and cyclosporine A act as
modulators of this protein. The most widely used method to measure Pgp activity
is flow cytometry using naturally fluorescent substrates such as anthracyclines
or rhodamine 123. The study of drug resistance and its association to Pgp began
with the study of resistance to chemotherapy in the treatment of cancer and
antiretroviral therapy for human immunodeficiency virus; however, the role of Pgp
in the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis and
psoriatic arthritis has been a focus of study lately and has emerged as an
important mechanism by which treatment failure occurs. The present review
analyzes the role of Pgp in these autoimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25712147  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


496. J Neurosci Res. 2015 Feb 24. doi: 10.1002/jnr.23577. [Epub ahead of print]

1-[2-(4-Benzyloxyphenoxy)Ethyl]Imidazole inhibits monoamine oxidase B and
protects against neuronal loss and behavioral impairment in rodent models of
Parkinson's disease.

Chung JY(1), Lee JW, Ryu CH, Min HK, Yoon YJ, Lim MJ, Park CH.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Discovery Center, SK Biopharmaceuticals Ltd., Dae Jeon, South Korea.

Monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) is well known as a therapeutic target for Parkinson's
disease (PD). MAO-B inhibitors retain antiparkinsonism abilities to improve motor
function and prevent neuronal loss by decreasing dopamine metabolism and
oxidative stress in the brain. From the study to find novel antiparkinsonism
drugs that can inhibit MAO-B activity, neuronal loss, and behavioral deficits in 
the mouse model of PD, we identified that
1-[2-(4-benzyloxyphenoxy)ethyl]imidazole (BPEI) or safinamide strongly and
selectively inhibited MAO-B activities in a dose-dependent manner (IC50 of BPEI
and safinamide for MAO-B were 0.016 and 0.0021 µM and for MAO-A were 70.0 and 370
µM, respectively). In ex vivo studies after an administration (30 mg/kg, i.p.) of
BPEI or safinamide to normal mice, the MAO-B activity in the brain was reduced by
up to 90.6% or 82.4% at 1.0 hr. BPEI (20 mg/kg, i.p.) or safinamide (20 mg/kg,
i.p.) significantly reversed the behavioral impairments, dopamine levels in the
striatum, and neuronal loss in the substantia nigra of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice compared with
the MPTP-alone-treated group. In the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced PD rat model,
behavioral improvement by levodopa sparing activity was observed in the BPEI- or 
safinamide-treated (20 mg/kg, i.p.) rats. Moreover, BPEI revealed additional
curative activities for nonmotor symptoms of PD such as pain, anxiety, epilepsy, 
and depression in rodent disease models. Therefore, BPEI has broad therapeutic
potential for treating motor symptoms via strong and selective inhibitory effects
on MAO-B, with additional benefits for comorbid symptoms in PD. © 2015 Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25711470  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


497. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2015 Feb;5(1):27-35. doi: 10.2217/nmt.14.38.

Pharmacogenetic considerations in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Kurzawski M(1), Białecka M, Droździk M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental & Clinical Pharmacology, Pomeranian Medical
University, Szczecin, Poland.

SUMMARY  Recently, a lot of progress has been made in the identification of
genetic biomarkers of drug response. Efforts to define the role of genetic
polymorphisms in optimizing pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease were also
undertaken. This report presents the current state of knowledge on
pharmacogenetics of PD, including genes encoding enzymes involved in drug
metabolism, drug transporters and direct targets of antiparkinsonian drugs. In
most of cases, available data on pharmacogenetic factors that could turn out to
be significant modifiers of therapy with anti-PD drugs is still very incomplete
and makes it impossible to reach final conclusion about their usefulness in the
clinic. More extensive studies, in more uniform, large patient groups, including 
genome-wide association studies, should be undertaken to finally confirm or deny 
the value of genetic tests in PD therapy individualization.

PMID: 25711452  [PubMed - in process]


498. PLoS Med. 2015 Feb 24;12(2):e1001789. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001789.
eCollection 2015.

Spatial and temporal heterogeneity in high-grade serous ovarian cancer: a
phylogenetic analysis.

Schwarz RF(1), Ng CK(2), Cooke SL(1), Newman S(1), Temple J(1), Piskorz AM(1),
Gale D(1), Sayal K(1), Murtaza M(1), Baldwin PJ(3), Rosenfeld N(2), Earl HM(4),
Sala E(5), Jimenez-Linan M(3), Parkinson CA(2), Markowetz F(2), Brenton JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom. (2)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; Department of Oncology, Hutchison/MRC
Research Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. (3)Cambridge
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Oncology, Hutchison/MRC Research Centre, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, 
Cambridge, United Kingdom. (5)University Department of Radiology, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The major clinical challenge in the treatment of high-grade serous
ovarian cancer (HGSOC) is the development of progressive resistance to
platinum-based chemotherapy. The objective of this study was to determine whether
intra-tumour genetic heterogeneity resulting from clonal evolution and the
emergence of subclonal tumour populations in HGSOC was associated with the
development of resistant disease.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Evolutionary inference and phylogenetic quantification of
heterogeneity was performed using the MEDICC algorithm on high-resolution whole
genome copy number profiles and selected genome-wide sequencing of 135 spatially 
and temporally separated samples from 14 patients with HGSOC who received
platinum-based chemotherapy. Samples were obtained from the clinical CTCR-OV03/04
studies, and patients were enrolled between 20 July 2007 and 22 October 2009.
Median follow-up of the cohort was 31 mo (interquartile range 22-46 mo), censored
after 26 October 2013. Outcome measures were overall survival (OS) and
progression-free survival (PFS). There were marked differences in the degree of
clonal expansion (CE) between patients (median 0.74, interquartile range
0.66-1.15), and dichotimization by median CE showed worse survival in CE-high
cases (PFS 12.7 versus 10.1 mo, p = 0.009; OS 42.6 versus 23.5 mo, p = 0.003).
Bootstrap analysis with resampling showed that the 95% confidence intervals for
the hazard ratios for PFS and OS in the CE-high group were greater than 1.0.
These data support a relationship between heterogeneity and survival but do not
precisely determine its effect size. Relapsed tissue was available for two
patients in the CE-high group, and phylogenetic analysis showed that the
prevalent clonal population at clinical recurrence arose from early divergence
events. A subclonal population marked by a NF1 deletion showed a progressive
increase in tumour allele fraction during chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that quantitative measures of intra-tumour
heterogeneity may have predictive value for survival after chemotherapy treatment
in HGSOC. Subclonal tumour populations are present in pre-treatment biopsies in
HGSOC and can undergo expansion during chemotherapy, causing clinical relapse.

PMCID: PMC4339382
PMID: 25710373  [PubMed - in process]


499. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 2015 Apr;54(2):81-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1394444. Epub
2015 Feb 24.

[Parkinson syndromes: aspects of social medical care].

[Article in German]

Bujan B(1), Ginzburg E(1), Oertel WH(2), Bürk K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Neurologie, MediClin Reha-Zentrum Bad Orb. (2)Neurologische Klinik,
Philipps Universität Marburg.

Parkinson syndromes (PS) represent frequent neurodegenerative disorders. The
demographic change suggests an increasing prevalence of PS in the near future.
Treatment expenses, early retirement and need of long-term care result in rising 
public health care expenditures. Standardised concepts of care do not only
improve the quality of patient-centered care, but also help to minimize its
consequential costs. Their implementation requires profound knowledge of
therapeutic strategies and sociomedical regulations. Medical treatment and
sociomedical care have to be regularly reevaluated and adapted to the patient's
needs and disease severity. An optimal therapy concept guarantees the patient's
long term social integration and improves the compliance.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

PMID: 25710302  [PubMed - in process]


500. J Neural Eng. 2015 Apr;12(2):026008. doi: 10.1088/1741-2560/12/2/026008. Epub
2015 Feb 24.

Computer-aided diagnosis of Parkinson's disease based on [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT
binding potential images, using the voxels-as-features approach and support
vector machines.

Oliveira FP(1), Castelo-Branco M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Nuclear Sciences Applied to Health (ICNAS-P), and Institute for 
Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences (IBILI), Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Coimbra, Portugal.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to develop a fully-automated
computational solution for computer-aided diagnosis in Parkinson syndrome based
on [(123)I]FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images.
APPROACH: A dataset of 654 [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT brain images from the Parkinson's
Progression Markers Initiative were used. Of these, 445 images were of patients
with Parkinson's disease at an early stage and the remainder formed a control
group. The images were pre-processed using automated template-based registration 
followed by the computation of the binding potential at a voxel level. Then, the 
binding potential images were used for classification, based on the
voxel-as-feature approach and using the support vector machines paradigm.
MAIN RESULTS: The obtained estimated classification accuracy was 97.86%, the
sensitivity was 97.75% and the specificity 98.09%.
SIGNIFICANCE: The achieved classification accuracy was very high and, in fact,
higher than accuracies found in previous studies reported in the literature. In
addition, results were obtained on a large dataset of early Parkinson's disease
subjects. In summation, the information provided by the developed computational
solution potentially supports clinical decision-making in nuclear medicine, using
important additional information beyond the commonly used uptake ratios and
respective statistical comparisons. (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01141023).

PMID: 25710187  [PubMed - in process]


501. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2015 Mar 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Cancer and Dementia: It's Complicated.

Ganguli M(1).

Author information: 
(1)*Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, School of Medicine †Department of
Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, PA.

The relationship between dementia and cancer is complex. A wealth of
observational data suggest (1) reduced risk of certain cancers in Alzheimer and
Parkinson diseases; and (2) increased risk of other cancers in Parkinson disease.
These relationships persist despite correcting for reporting artifacts and
survival bias. Several potential mechanisms have been proposed and warrant
further investigation. Aging is a risk factor for both. Common environmental
exposures, such as smoking, may play roles. Common mechanisms such as chronic
inflammation and immunosenescence, and common risk factors such as diabetes and
obesity, have been implicated. Shared genetic pathways are a major focus,
particularly those favoring apoptosis and cell proliferation at opposite ends of 
the spectrum. To complicate the picture further, certain cancer chemotherapy and 
adjuvant therapy agents have neurotoxic effects, whereas animal studies show
other cancer drugs reducing neurodegeneration, raising the possibility of
repurposing those agents for use in Alzheimer disease. These multiple potential
lines of evidence must be disentangled to investigate underlying mechanisms, the 
end-game being to develop and to test potential prevention and treatment
strategies.

PMID: 25710132  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


502. Int J Prev Med. 2014 Dec;5(12):1487-99.

New concepts in nutraceuticals as alternative for pharmaceuticals.

Nasri H(1), Baradaran A(2), Shirzad H(3), Rafieian-Kopaei M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, Division of Nephropathology, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. (2)Department of Pathology, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. (3)Medical Plants Research Center, Shahrekord
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.

Nutraceuticals are products, which other than nutrition are also used as
medicine. A nutraceutical product may be defined as a substance, which has
physiological benefit or provides protection against chronic disease.
Nutraceuticals may be used to improve health, delay the aging process, prevent
chronic diseases, increase life expectancy, or support the structure or function 
of the body. Nowadays, nutraceuticals have received considerable interest due to 
potential nutritional, safety and therapeutic effects. Recent studies have shown 
promising results for these compounds in various complications. In the present
review much effort has been devoted to present new concepts about nutraceuticals 
based on their diseases modifying indications. Emphasis has been made to present 
herbal nutraceuticals effective on hard curative disorders related to oxidative
stress including allergy, alzheimer, cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes, eye,
immune, inflammatory and Parkinson's diseases as well as obesity. The recently
published papers about different aspects of nutraceuticals as alternative for
pharmaceuticals were searched using scientific sites such as Medline, PubMed, and
Google Scholar. The used terms included nutraceutical and allergy, alzheimer,
cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes, eye, immune, inflammatory or Parkinson.

PMCID: PMC4336979
PMID: 25709784  [PubMed]


503. Front Genet. 2015 Feb 9;6:30. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2015.00030. eCollection 2015.

SNP imputation bias reduces effect size determination.

Khankhanian P(1), Din L(1), Caillier SJ(1), Gourraud PA(1), Baranzini SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco San Francisco,
CA, USA.

Imputation is a commonly used technique that exploits linkage disequilibrium to
infer missing genotypes in genetic datasets, using a well-characterized reference
population. While there is agreement that the reference population has to match
the ethnicity of the query dataset, it is common practice to use the same
reference to impute genotypes for a wide variety of phenotypes. We hypothesized
that using a reference composed of samples with a different phenotype than the
query dataset would introduce imputation bias. To test this hypothesis we used
GWAS datasets from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson Disease (PD),
and Crohn's Disease (CD). First, we masked and then performed imputation of 100
disease-associated markers and 100 non-associated markers from each study. Two
references for imputation were used in parallel: one consisting of healthy
controls and another consisting of patients with the same disease. We assessed
the discordance (imprecision) and bias (inaccuracy) of imputation by comparing
predicted genotypes to those assayed by SNP-chip. We also assessed the bias on
the observed effect size when the predicted genotypes were used in a GWAS study. 
When healthy controls were used as reference for imputation, a significant bias
was observed, particularly in the disease-associated markers. Using cases as
reference significantly attenuated this bias. For nearly all markers, the
direction of the bias favored the non-risk allele. In GWAS studies of the three
diseases (with healthy reference controls from the 1000 genomes as reference),
the mean OR for disease-associated markers obtained by imputation was lower than 
that obtained using original assayed genotypes. We found that the bias is
inherent to imputation as using different methods did not alter the results. In
conclusion, imputation is a powerful method to predict genotypes and estimate
genetic risk for GWAS. However, a careful choice of reference population is
needed to minimize biases inherent to this approach.

PMCID: PMC4321633
PMID: 25709616  [PubMed]


504. Exp Neurol. 2015 May;267:30-41. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.02.017. Epub 2015
Feb 20.

Meningeal cells influence midbrain development and the engraftment of dopamine
progenitors in Parkinsonian mice.

Somaa FA(1), Bye CR(1), Thompson LH(1), Parish CL(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia. (2)The Florey Institute of
Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 
3010, Australia. Electronic address: cparish@unimelb.edu.au.

Dopaminergic neuroblasts, isolated from ventral midbrain fetal tissue, have been 
shown to structurally and functionally integrate, and alleviate Parkinsonian
symptoms following transplantation. The use of donor tissue isolated at an age
younger than conventionally employed can result in larger grafts - a consequence 
of improved cell survival and neuroblast proliferation at the time of
implantation. However studies have paid little attention to removal of the
meninges from younger tissue, due to its age-dependent tight attachment to the
underlying brain. Beyond the protection of the central nervous system, the
meninges act as a signaling center, secreting a variety of trophins to influence 
neural development and additionally impact on neural repair. However it remains
to be elucidated what influence these cells have on ventral midbrain development 
and grafted dopaminergic neuroblasts. Here we examined the temporal role of
meningeal cells in graft integration in Parkinsonian mice and, using in vitro
approaches, identified the mechanisms underlying the roles of meningeal cells in 
midbrain development. We demonstrate that young (embryonic day 10), but not older
(E12), meningeal cells promote dopaminergic differentiation as well as neurite
growth and guidance within grafts and during development. Furthermore we identify
stromal derived factor 1 (SDF1), secreted by the meninges and acting on the CXCR4
receptor present on dopaminergic progenitors, as a contributory mediator in these
effects. These findings identify new and important roles for the meningeal cells,
and SDF1/CXCR4 signaling, in ventral midbrain development as well as neural
repair following cell transplantation into the Parkinsonian brain.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25708989  [PubMed - in process]


505. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 2:S5. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S2-S5. Epub 2015 Jan 
21.

Genome-wide association data classification and SNPs selection using two-stage
quality-based Random Forests.

Nguyen TT, Huang J, Wu Q, Nguyen T, Li M.

BACKGROUND: Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) selection and identification
are the most important tasks in Genome-wide association data analysis. The
problem is difficult because genome-wide association data is very high
dimensional and a large portion of SNPs in the data is irrelevant to the disease.
Advanced machine learning methods have been successfully used in Genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) for identification of genetic variants that have
relatively big effects in some common, complex diseases. Among them, the most
successful one is Random Forests (RF). Despite of performing well in terms of
prediction accuracy in some data sets with moderate size, RF still suffers from
working in GWAS for selecting informative SNPs and building accurate prediction
models. In this paper, we propose to use a new two-stage quality-based sampling
method in random forests, named ts-RF, for SNP subspace selection for GWAS. The
method first applies p-value assessment to find a cut-off point that separates
informative and irrelevant SNPs in two groups. The informative SNPs group is
further divided into two sub-groups: highly informative and weak informative
SNPs. When sampling the SNP subspace for building trees for the forest, only
those SNPs from the two sub-groups are taken into account. The feature subspaces 
always contain highly informative SNPs when used to split a node at a tree.
RESULTS: This approach enables one to generate more accurate trees with a lower
prediction error, meanwhile possibly avoiding overfitting. It allows one to
detect interactions of multiple SNPs with the diseases, and to reduce the
dimensionality and the amount of Genome-wide association data needed for learning
the RF model. Extensive experiments on two genome-wide SNP data sets (Parkinson
case-control data comprised of 408,803 SNPs and Alzheimer case-control data
comprised of 380,157 SNPs) and 10 gene data sets have demonstrated that the
proposed model significantly reduced prediction errors and outperformed most
existing the-state-of-the-art random forests. The top 25 SNPs in Parkinson data
set were identified by the proposed model including four interesting genes
associated with neurological disorders.
CONCLUSION: The presented approach has shown to be effective in selecting
informative sub-groups of SNPs potentially associated with diseases that
traditional statistical approaches might fail. The new RF works well for the data
where the number of case-control objects is much smaller than the number of SNPs,
which is a typical problem in gene data and GWAS. Experiment results demonstrated
the effectiveness of the proposed RF model that outperformed the state-of-the-art
RFs, including Breiman's RF, GRRF and wsRF methods.

PMCID: PMC4331719
PMID: 25708662  [PubMed - in process]


506. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Mar;11(3):123. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2015.19. Epub 2015 Feb 
24.

Parkinson disease: treatment needs vary between Parkinson disease subtypes.

Chase A.

Comment on
    Ann Neurol. 2015 Apr;77(4):710-9.
    Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):373-8.

PMID: 25708392  [PubMed - in process]


507. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Feb 24. doi: 10.1111/ane.12390. [Epub ahead of print]

Vitamin D deficiency in Parkinson's disease patients with orthostatic
hypotension.

Jang W(1), Park J, Kim JS, Youn J, Oh E, Kwon KY, Jo KD, Lee MK, Kim HT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Gangneung Asan Hospital, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, Gangneung, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of our study was to investigate the associations between 
serum vitamin D3 levels and orthostatic hypotension (OH) in patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-five patients with PD were enrolled in this study.
Blood pressure (BP) measurements were gathered while the patients were in the
supine position and while standing up. Then, the patients were divided into two
groups: PD patients with and without OH. We compared the levels of serum
25-hydroxyvitamin D3 and 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (calcitriol) between the two
groups.
RESULTS: Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and calcitriol levels were significantly
decreased in patients with OH compared with those without OH. The systolic and
diastolic BPs and symptom severities significantly negatively correlated with the
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and calcitriol levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the underlying mechanism for this association is not fully 
understood, our results suggest that low vitamin D status is associated with OH
in patients with PD.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25708272  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


508. Int J Clin Pract. 2015 Feb 24. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12624. [Epub ahead of print]

Nationwide time trends and risk factors for in-hospital falls-related major
injuries.

Jørgensen TS(1), Hansen AH, Sahlberg M, Gislason GH, Torp-Pedersen C, Andersson
C, Holm E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Nykøbing-Falster Hospital, Nykøbing Falster,
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Accidental falls during hospitalisation have a range of complications
and more information is needed to improve prevention. We investigated patterns of
in-hospital fall-related major injuries in the period 2000-2012 and the
association between chronic conditions and in-hospital fall-related major
injuries.
METHODS: Using administrative databases, patients aged 65+ years with in-hospital
falls causing fractures or head injuries with need for surgery or intensive
observation were identified as cases and were individually matched with five
controls. Joinpoint regression was used to examine time trends and conditional
logistic regression was used to analyse odds ratio (OR) for in-hospital
falls-related major injuries according to a range of comorbidities.
RESULTS: Four thousand seven hundred and fifty-four cases were identified from
2000 to 2012 and the most common injury was femur fracture (61.55%). For
individuals aged 65-74 and 75+ years, the incidence of in-hospital falls-related 
major injuries per 100,000 hospital days increased significantly in 2000-2012
(average annual change: 3.2%, CI: 0.6-5.8) and 2007-2012 (average annual change: 
11.4%, CI: 5.7-17.5), respectively. Significantly increased OR for in-hospital
fall-related major injuries were found for individuals with dementia (OR = 2.34, 
CI: 1.87-2.92), osteoporosis (OR = 1.68, CI: 1.43-1.99), stroke (OR = 1.63, CI:
1.41-1.88), depression (OR = 1.24, CI: 1.09-1.41), chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (OR = 1.18, CI: 1.01-1.39) and Parkinson disease (OR = 1.17, CI:
1.01-1.34).
CONCLUSIONS: In-hospital falls-related major injuries increased significantly
during the study period. Elderly with dementia, osteoporosis, stroke, depression,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and Parkinson disease were associated with 
increased OR for in-hospital fall-related major injuries. Increased focus on
patients with these comorbidities is warranted to decrease the increasing
incidence in in-hospital major injuries.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25707918  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


509. Herzschrittmacherther Elektrophysiol. 2015 Mar;26(1):56-8. doi:
10.1007/s00399-015-0359-5. Epub 2015 Feb 24.

[A patient without intracardiac ECG : Persistent azygos vein].

[Article in German]

Bellmann B(1), Schauerte P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine-Cardiology, Charité Berlin Campus Benjamin Franklin,
Hindenburgdamm 30, 12203, Berlin, Deutschland, barbara.bellmann@charite.de.

Interruption of inferior vena cava with azygos continuation is a rare venous
anomaly. We report the case of a 17 old male with Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome
and a persistent vena azygos. Despite the complex anatomical situation, it was
possible to safely ablate a lateral accessory pathway with radiofrequency energy 
using a femoral retrograde approach.

PMID: 25707908  [PubMed - in process]


510. Ann Neurol. 2015 May;77(5):877-83. doi: 10.1002/ana.24393. Epub 2015 Mar 27.

Heart rate variability and the risk of Parkinson disease: The Atherosclerosis
Risk in Communities study.

Alonso A(1), Huang X, Mosley TH, Heiss G, Chen H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.

OBJECTIVE: Autonomic dysfunction frequently occurs in the context of Parkinson
disease (PD) and may precede onset of motor symptoms. Limited data exist on the
prospective association of heart rate variability (HRV), a marker of autonomic
function, with PD risk.
METHODS: We included 12,162 participants of the Atherosclerosis Risk in
Communities study, a community-based cohort, without a diagnosis of PD at
baseline (1987-1989) and with available HRV data (mean age = 54 years, 57%
women). A 2-minute electrocardiogram was used to measure HRV. Incident PD was
identified through 2008 from multiple sources, and adjudicated. Multivariable Cox
models were used to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals
(CIs) of PD by quartiles of HRV measurements.
RESULTS: During a mean follow-up of 18 years, we identified 78 incident PD cases.
Lower values of the root mean square of successive differences in
normal-to-normal R-R intervals (rMSSD) and standard deviation of normal-to-normal
R-R intervals (SDNN), markers of parasympathetic activity and total variability, 
respectively, were associated with higher PD risk during follow-up. In
multivariate models, the HR (95% CI) of PD in the bottom quartiles of rMSSD and
SDNN compared to the top quartiles were 2.1 (1.0-4.3) and 2.9 (1.4-6.1),
respectively. Other measures of cardiac autonomic function, including mean R-R
interval and frequency-domain measurements, were not associated with PD risk.
INTERPRETATION: In this prospective cohort, decreased HRV was associated with an 
increased risk of PD. Assessment of cardiac autonomic function may help identify 
individuals at risk for PD. Ann Neurol 2015;77:877-883.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25707861  [PubMed - in process]


511. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):389-93. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.004. Epub 2015 Feb 13.

Increased urinary indoxyl sulfate (indican): New insights into gut dysbiosis in
Parkinson's disease.

Cassani E(1), Barichella M(2), Cancello R(3), Cavanna F(2), Iorio L(2), Cereda
E(4), Bolliri C(2), Zampella Maria P(2), Bianchi F(2), Cestaro B(5), Pezzoli
G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson Institute-Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Milano, Italy.
Electronic address: erica.cassani@live.it. (2)Parkinson Institute-Istituti
Clinici di Perfezionamento, Milano, Italy. (3)Istituto Auxologico Italiano,
IRCCS, Milano, Italy. (4)Nutrition and Dietetics Service, Fondazione IRCCS
Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy. (5)Department of Biomedical and Clinical
Sciences L. Sacco, School of Clinical Nutrition, Faculty of Medicine and
Surgery-University of Milan, Milano, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Changes in the composition of gut microflora have been associated
with an increase in chronic diseases. Indican urinary concentration is one of the
most common and easily assessable markers of intestinal dysbiosis. Little
information is available on intestinal dysbiosis in Parkinson's disease (PD). We 
decided to investigate indican urinary concentrations in a cohort of PD patients.
METHODS: A case-control study including PD patients (N = 68) on treatment with
levodopa (PD) or on no pharmacological treatment (De Novo, DPD; N=34) and an age 
and gender-matched healthy control group (CTR; N=50). Main confounders, such as
nutritional habits and constipation diagnosed according to Rome III criteria,
were also investigated.
RESULTS: Indican urinary concentrations were significantly higher in PD and DPD
than in CTR (P < 0.001 and P < 0.01, respectively). In PD patients the
concentrations were unrelated to the presence of constipation, whereas this
symptom was associated with higher concentrations in controls (P=0.043). The
frequency of dairy product consumption was also positively associated with
increased concentrations (P=0.008). Predictors of indican concentrations were
sought by multivariate linear regression analysis. The higher indican urinary
concentrations found in both DPD (P=0.045) and PD (P=0.023) patients persisted
after adjustment for age, gender, BMI, constipation and consumption of dairy
products.
CONCLUSIONS: Gut dysbiosis seems to be an important issue in PD, independently of
the presence of constipation and starting from the early stages of the disease.
The role of gut dysbiosis in the pathogenesis of PD deserves further
investigation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25707302  [PubMed - in process]


512. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):423-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.02.002. Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Levodopa-induced neutropenia.

Cordano C(1), Pardini M(2), Cellerino M(2), Schenone A(2), Marino F(3), Cosentino
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics and
Maternal and Child Health, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy; Department of
Neurology, UCSF, San Francisco, USA. Electronic address:
cordanochristian@gmail.com. (2)Department of Neurosciences, Rehabilitation,
Ophthalmology, Genetics and Maternal and Child Health, University of Genoa,
Genoa, Italy. (3)Center for Research in Medical Pharmacology, University of
Insubria, Varese, Italy.

PMID: 25707301  [PubMed - in process]


513. Parkinsons Dis. 2015;2015:982058. doi: 10.1155/2015/982058. Epub 2015 Jan 29.

German translation and validation of the "freezing of gait questionnaire" in
patients with Parkinson's disease.

Vogler A(1), Janssens J(2), Nyffeler T(3), Bohlhalter S(3), Vanbellingen T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Health, Bern University of Applied Sciences, 3008 Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Neurorehabilitation Centre Klinik Bethesda Tschugg, 3233 Tschugg, Switzerland.
(3)Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Centre, Luzerner Kantonsspital, 6000 Luzern,
Switzerland. (4)Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Centre, Luzerner Kantonsspital,
6000 Luzern, Switzerland ; University of Bern, 3010 Bern, Switzerland.

Background. Freezing of Gait (FOG) is a disabling parkinsonian symptom. The
Freezing of Gait Questionnaire (FOG-Q) reliably detects FOG in patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD). Objectives. The aim of this study was to develop a
German translated version of the FOG-Q and to assess its validity. Methods. The
translation was accomplished using forward-backward-translation. The construct
validity of the FOG-Q was examined in twenty-seven German native speaking PD
patients. Convergent validity was assessed by correlating the FOG-Q with the
Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS)
II-III, the Parkinson Disease Questionnaire 39 (PDQ-39), and the Timed Up and Go 
Test (TUG). Divergent validity was assessed by correlating the FOG-Q with the
MDS-UPDRS I. The internal consistency was measured using Cronbach's alpha (Cα).
Results. A good internal structure of the FOG-Q was found (Cα = 0.83).
Significant moderate correlations between the FOG-Q and the MDS-UPDRS item 2.13
(freezing) (r s = 0.568, P = 0.002) and between the FOG-Q and the PDQ-39 subscale
mobility (r s = 0.516, P = 0.006) were found. The lack of correlation with the
MDS-UPDRS I demonstrated good divergent validity. Conclusion. The German FOG-Q is
a valid tool to assess FOG in German native speaking PD patients.

PMCID: PMC4325214
PMID: 25705546  [PubMed]


514. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2015 Feb 22. doi: 10.1002/ar.23124. [Epub ahead of print]

Apoptotic Mediators are Upregulated in the Skeletal Muscle of Chronic/Progressive
Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease.

Erekat NS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Jordan University of Science and
Technology (JUST), Irbid, Jordan.

Apoptosis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD).
Parkinson disease is characterized by skeletal muscle abnormalities. The aim of
this study is to illustrate the impact of PD induction on the expression of
apoptotic mediators. Twenty normal albino mice were randomly selected and equally
divided in control and PD groups. Chronic Parkinsonism was induced in the PD
group using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and probenecid (MPTP/p).
After that, samples from gastrocnemius muscles were evaluated by
immunohistochemistry to examine the expression of p53 and active caspase-3 in the
two groups of animals. P53 and active caspase-3 expression was significantly
higher in gastrocnemius skeletal muscle in PD mice compared with that in the
control mice (P value <0.01). Furthermore, we show PD gastrocnemius muscle
atrophy measured by significant reduction (P < 0.01) in the muscle fiber
cross-sectional area. Thus, our present data suggest that PD induction increased 
the expression of the apoptotic mediators p53 and active caspase-3 in
gastrocnemius muscle, indicating the induction of apoptosis, which was
correlative with gastrocnemius muscle atrophy subsequent to the induction of PD. 
Anat Rec, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25704481  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


515. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2015 Feb 20. pii: S1084-9521(15)00034-8. doi:
10.1016/j.semcdb.2015.02.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Extracellular vesicles - Their role in the packaging and spread of misfolded
proteins associated with neurodegenerative diseases.

Coleman BM(1), Hill AF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bio21 Molecular Science and 
Biotechnology Institute, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC 3010,
Australia. (2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bio21 Molecular
Science and Biotechnology Institute, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC 
3010, Australia. Electronic address: a.hill@unimelb.edu.au.

Many cell types, including neurons, are known to release small membranous
vesicles known as exosomes. In addition to their protein content these vesicles
have recently been shown to contain messenger RNA (mRNA) and micro RNA (miRNA)
species. Roles for these vesicles include cell-cell signalling, removal of
unwanted proteins, and transfer of pathogens (including prion-like misfolded
proteins) between cells, such as infectious prions. Prions are the infectious
particles that are responsible for transmissible neurodegenerative diseases such 
as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) of humans or bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
(BSE) of cattle. Exosomes are also involved in processing the amyloid precursor
protein (APP), which is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). As exosomes can
be isolated from circulating fluids such as serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF), they provide a potential source of biomarkers for neurological conditions.
Here, we review the roles these vesicles play in neurodegenerative disease and
highlight their potential in diagnosing these disorders through analysis of their
RNA content.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25704308  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


516. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):378-82. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.018. Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Motion sensor strategies for automated optimization of deep brain stimulation in 
Parkinson's disease.

Pulliam CL(1), Heldman DA(2), Orcutt TH(3), Mera TO(2), Giuffrida JP(2), Vitek
JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Great Lakes NeuroTechnologies, Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address:
cpulliam@glneurotech.com. (2)Great Lakes NeuroTechnologies, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(3)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a well-established treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD). Optimization of DBS settings can be a challenge due to 
the number of variables that must be considered, including presence of multiple
motor signs, side effects, and battery life.
METHODS: Nine PD subjects visited the clinic for programming at approximately 1, 
2, and 4 months post-surgery. During each session, various stimulation settings
were assessed and subjects performed motor tasks while wearing a motion sensor to
quantify tremor and bradykinesia. At the end of each session, a clinician
determined final stimulation settings using standard practices. Sensor-based
ratings of motor symptom severities collected during programming were then used
to develop two automated programming algorithms - one to optimize symptom benefit
and another to optimize battery life. Therapeutic benefit was compared between
the final clinician-determined DBS settings and those calculated by the automated
algorithm.
RESULTS: Settings determined using the symptom optimization algorithm would have 
reduced motor symptoms by an additional 13 percentage points when compared to
clinician settings, typically at the expense of increased stimulation amplitude. 
By adding a battery life constraint, the algorithm would have been able to
decrease stimulation amplitude by an average of 50% while maintaining the level
of therapeutic benefit observed using clinician settings for a subset of
programming sessions.
CONCLUSIONS: Objective assessment in DBS programming can identify settings that
improve symptoms or obtain similar benefit as clinicians with improvement in
battery life. Both options have the potential to improve post-operative patient
outcomes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4372473 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25703990  [PubMed - in process]


517. Trends Genet. 2015 Mar;31(3):140-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tig.2015.01.004. Epub 2015 Feb
20.

Progress in unraveling the genetic etiology of Parkinson disease in a genomic
era.

Verstraeten A(1), Theuns J(1), Van Broeckhoven C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB,
Antwerp, Belgium; Laboratory of Neurogenetics, Institute Born Bunge, University
of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. (2)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases Group,
Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium; Laboratory of
Neurogenetics, Institute Born Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
Electronic address: christine.vanbroeckhoven@molgen.vib-ua.be.

Parkinson disease (PD) and Parkinson-plus syndromes are genetically heterogeneous
neurological diseases. Initial studies into the genetic causes of PD relied on
classical molecular genetic approaches in well-documented case families. More
recently, these approaches have been combined with exome sequencing and together 
have identified 15 causal genes. Additionally, genome-wide association studies
(GWASs) have discovered over 25 genetic risk factors. Elucidation of the genetic 
architecture of sporadic and familial parkinsonism, however, has lagged behind
that of simple Mendelian conditions, suggesting the existence of features
confounding genetic data interpretation. Here we discuss the successes and
potential pitfalls of gene discovery in PD and related disorders in the
post-genomic era. With an estimated 30% of trait variance currently unexplained, 
tackling current limitations will further expedite gene discovery and lead to
increased application of these genetic insights in molecular diagnostics using
gene panel and exome sequencing strategies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25703649  [PubMed - in process]


518. J Control Release. 2015 Apr 10;203:170-80. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.02.030.
Epub 2015 Feb 20.

Intranasal PRGF-Endoret enhances neuronal survival and attenuates NF-κB-dependent
inflammation process in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.

Anitua E(1), Pascual C(2), Pérez-Gonzalez R(2), Orive G(3), Carro E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Foundation Eduardo Anitua, Vitoria, Spain. (2)Neuroscience Group, Instituto de
Investigacion Hospital 12 de Octubre (i+12), Madrid, Spain; Biomedical Research
Networking Center in Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Foundation Eduardo Anitua, Vitoria, Spain. Electronic address:
gorka.orive@bti-implant.es. (4)Neuroscience Group, Instituto de Investigacion
Hospital 12 de Octubre (i+12), Madrid, Spain; Biomedical Research Networking
Center in Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. Electronic
address: carroeva@h12o.es.

Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder of unknown
pathogenesis characterized by the loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons.
Oxidative stress, microglial activation and inflammatory responses seem to
contribute to the pathogenesis. Recent data showed that growth factors mediate
neuroprotection in rodent models of Parkinson's disease, modulating
pro-inflammatory processes. Based on our recent studies showing that plasma rich 
in growth factors (PRGF-Endoret) mediates neuroprotection as inflammatory
moderator in Alzheimer's disease, in the present study we examined the effects of
plasma rich in growth factors (PRGF-Endoret) in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned mouse as a
translational therapeutic approach for Parkinson's disease. We found substantial 
neuroprotection by PRGF-Endoret in our model of Parkinson's disease, which
resulted in diminished inflammatory responses and improved motor performance.
Additionally, these effects were associated with robust reduction in nuclear
transcription factor-κB (NF-κB) activation, and nitric oxide (NO),
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) expression in
the substantia nigra. We propose that PRGF-Endoret can prevent dopaminergic
degeneration via an NF-κB-dependent signaling process. As the clinical safety
profile of PRGF-Endoret is already established, these data suggest that
PRGF-Endoret provides a novel neuroprotective strategy for Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25702964  [PubMed - in process]


519. Can J Neurol Sci. 2015 Mar;42(2):116-24. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2015.12. Epub 2015 Feb 
23.

Dynamic decomposition of motion in essential and parkinsonian tremor.

Rahimi F(1), Debicki D(2), Roberts-South A(3), Bee C(1), Bapat P(4), Jog M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1London Health Sciences Centre,Western University,London,ON,Canada.
(2)2Department of Neurology,Western University,London,ON,Canada. (3)3Department
of Health Rehabilitation Sciences,Western University,London,ON,Canada.
(4)4Department of Physiology and Pharmacology,Western
University,London,ON,Canada.

BACKGROUND: Treatment options for essential (ET) and Parkinson disease (PD)
tremor are suboptimal, with significant side effects. Botulinum toxin type A
(BoNT A) is successfully used in management of various focal movement disorders
but is not widely used for tremor.
METHOD: This study examines complexity of wrist tremor in terms of involvement of
its three anatomical degrees of freedom (DOF) in two common situations of rest
and posture. The study examines tremor in 11 ET and 17 PD participants by
kinematic decomposition of motion in 3-DOF.
RESULTS: Tremor decomposition showed the motion involved more than one DOF (<70% 
contribution in one DOF) in most ET (rest: 100%, posture: 64%) and PD (rest: 77%,
posture: 77%) patients. Task variation resulted in change in both amplitude and
composition in ET, but not in PD. Amplitude significantly increased from rest to 
posture in ET. Directional bias was observed at the wrist for ET (pronation), and
PD (extension, ulnar deviation, pronation). Average agreement between clinical
visual and kinematic selection of muscles was 55% across all subjects.
CONCLUSION: This study shows the complexity of tremor and the difficulty in
visual judgment of tremor, which may be key to the success of targeted focal
treatments such as BoNT A.

PMID: 25702954  [PubMed - in process]


520. Med Secoli. 2014;26(1):379-81.

[Mazarello P., L'erba della regina. Storia di un decotto miracoloso. Torino,
Bollati Boringhieri, 2013].

[Article in Italian]

Gazzaniga V.

PMID: 25702395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Handb Clin Neurol. 2015;128:475-96. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-63521-1.00030-3.

Movement disorders secondary to craniocerebral trauma.

Krauss JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School Hannover, Hannover, Germany.
Electronic address: krauss.joachim@mh-hannover.de.

Over the past few decades it has been recognized that traumatic brain injury may 
result in various movement disorders. In survivors of severe head injury,
post-traumatic movement disorders were reported in about 20%, and they persisted 
in about 10% of patients. The most frequent persisting movement disorder in this 
population is kinetic cerebellar outflow tremor in about 9%, followed by dystonia
in about 4%. While tremor is associated most frequently with cerebellar or
mesencephalic lesions, patients with dystonia frequently have basal ganglia or
thalamic lesions. Moderate or mild traumatic brain injury only rarely causes
persistent post-traumatic movement disorders. It appears that the frequency of
post-traumatic movement disorders overall has been declining which most likely is
secondary to improved treatment of brain injury. In patients with disabling
post-traumatic movement disorders which are refractory to medical treatment,
stereotactic neurosurgery can provide long-lasting benefit. While in the past the
primary option for severe kinetic tremor was thalamotomy and for dystonia
thalamotomy or pallidotomy, today deep brain stimulation has become the preferred
treatment. Parkinsonism is a rare consequence of single head injury, but repeated
head injury such as seen in boxing can result in chronic encephalopathy with
parkinsonian features. While there is still controversy whether or not head
injury is a risk factor for the development of Parkinson's disease, recent
studies indicate that genetic susceptibility might be relevant.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25701902  [PubMed - in process]


522. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2015 Feb 19. pii: S1044-7431(15)00022-6. doi:
10.1016/j.mcn.2015.02.009. [Epub ahead of print]

The endosomal pathway in Parkinson's disease.

Perrett RM(1), Alexopoulou Z(1), Tofaris GK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, UK.
(2)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, UK.
Electronic address: george.tofaris@ndcn.ox.ac.uk.

Parkinson's disease is primarily a movement disorder with predilection for the
nigral dopaminergic neurons and is often associated with widespread
neurodegeneration and diffuse Lewy body deposition. Recent advances in molecular 
genetics and studies in model organisms have transformed our understanding of
Parkinson's pathogenesis and suggested unifying biochemical pathways despite the 
clinical heterogeneity of the disease. In this review, we summarized the evidence
that a number of Parkinson's associated genetic mutations or polymorphisms
(LRRK2, VPS35, GBA, ATP13A2, ATP6AP2, DNAJC13/RME-8, RAB7L1, GAK) disrupt protein
trafficking and degradation via the endosomal pathway and discussed how such
defects could arise from or contribute to the accumulation and misfolding of
α-synuclein in Lewy bodies. We propose that an age-related pathological depletion
of functional endolysosomes due to neuromelanin deposition in dopaminergic
neurons may increase their susceptibility to stochastic molecular defects in this
pathway and we discuss how enzymes that regulate ubiquitin signaling, as
exemplified by the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4, could provide the missing link between
genetic and acquired defects in endosomal trafficking.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25701813  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


523. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):413-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.016. Epub 2015 Feb 7.

Gait velocity and step length at baseline predict outcome of Nordic walking
training in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Herfurth M(1), Godau J(2), Kattner B(3), Rombach S(4), Grau S(5), Maetzler W(6), 
Berg D(7).

Author information: 
(1)German Center of Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Tübingen, Germany. 
(2)Klinikum Kassel, Department of Neurology and Kassel Medical School, University
of Southampton, Kassel, Germany. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, University
Clinic Tübingen, Germany. (4)Department of Sports Medicine, University Clinic
Tübingen, Germany. (5)Department of Food and Nutrition, and Sport Science,
University of Gothenburg, Sweden. (6)Center of Neurology, Hertie Institute for
Clinical Brain Research, Department of Neurodegeneration, Germany; German Center 
of Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Tübingen, Germany. (7)Center of
Neurology, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of
Neurodegeneration, Germany; German Center of Neurodegenerative Diseases,
University of Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address:
daniela.berg@uni-tuebingen.de.

BACKGROUND: The impact of Nordic walking (NW) in Parkinson's disease (PD) has
been investigated in several studies but results are inconsistent. This may be
due to different cohorts studied and the heterogeneity of their PD symptoms which
impact the outcome of NW. This study aimed at determining predictive factors for 
a positive effect of NW on PD.
METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Primary outcome was to define the baseline
disease-associated and demographic parameters that distinguish patients who
demonstrate improvement in the Unified PD rating scale (UPDRS) motor part
following NW training ("U(+)") from those patients with no improvement after the 
same intervention ("U(-)"). The potentially predictive parameters were: age, age 
at onset, disease duration, gait velocity, step length, daily step number,
UPDRS-motor part, Berg-Balance-Scale,
Parkinson-Neuropsychometric-Dementia-Assessment, verbal-fluency-test and
Becks-Depression-Inventory-II. Twenty-two PD patients (H&Y stage 2-2.5) performed
twelve weeks of NW training. Eighteen patients were included in the final
analysis. Overall, the UPDRS motor part did not improve significantly; however,
eight patients had an improvement in the UPDRS motor part from baseline to end of
study (U(+)). When comparing the potentially predictive factors of the U(+)
cohort with those ten patients who did not improve (U(-)), there was a notable
difference in gait velocity and step length, and showed a significant correlation
with an improvement in the UDPRS motor part scores.
CONCLUSION: Gait velocity and step length can predict the outcome of NW training 
as determined by the UPDRS motor part, indicating that PD patients with only
slightly impaired gait performance benefit most.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25701468  [PubMed - in process]


524. J Electrocardiol. 2015 May-Jun;48(3):329-38. doi:
10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2015.02.001. Epub 2015 Feb 8.

The effectiveness of screening history, physical exam, and ECG to detect
potentially lethal cardiac disorders in athletes: A systematic
review/meta-analysis.

Harmon KG(1), Zigman M(2), Drezner JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA;
Department of Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: kharmon@uw.edu. (2)Department of Family
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The optimal cardiovascular preparticipation screen is debated. The
purpose of this study was to perform a systematic review/meta-analysis of
evidence comparing screening strategies.
METHODS: PRIMSA guidelines were followed. Electronic databases were searched from
January 1996 to November 2014 for articles examining the efficacy of screening
with history and physical exam (PE) based on the American Heart Association (AHA)
or similar recommendations and electrocardiogram (ECG). Pooled data was analyzed 
for sensitivity, specificity, false positive rates and positive and negative
likelihood ratios. Secondary outcomes included rate of potentially lethal
cardiovascular conditions detected with screening and the etiology of pathology
discovered.
RESULTS: Fifteen articles reporting on 47,137 athletes were reviewed. After
meta-analysis the sensitivity and specificity of ECG was 94%/93%, history
20%/94%, and PE 9%/97%. The overall false positive rate of ECG (6%) was less than
that of history (8%), or physical exam (10%). Positive likelihood ratios were ECG
14.8, history 3.22 and PE 2.93 and negative likelihood ratios were ECG 0.055,
history 0.85, and PE 0.93. There were a total of 160 potentially lethal
cardiovascular conditions detected for a rate of 0.3% or 1 in 294. The most
common pathology was Wolff-Parkinson-White (67, 42%), Long QT Syndrome (18, 11%),
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (18, 11%), dilated cardiomyopathy (11, 7%), coronary 
artery disease or myocardial ischemia (9, 6%) and arrhythmogenic right
ventricular cardiomyopathy (4, 3%).
CONCLUSIONS: The most effective strategy for screening for cardiovascular disease
in athletes is ECG. It is 5 times more sensitive than history, 10 times more
sensitive than physical exam, has higher positive likelihood ratio, lower
negative likelihood ratio and a lower false positive rate. 12-lead ECG
interpreted using modern criteria should be considered best practice in screening
for cardiovascular disease in athletes while the use of history and physical
alone as a screening tool should be reevaluated.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25701104  [PubMed - in process]


525. J Clin Sleep Med. 2015 Jan 31. pii: jc-00399-14. [Epub ahead of print]

Sleep Disturbances in Essential Tremor and Parkinson Disease: A Polysomnographic 
Study.

Barut BO, Taşçılar N, Varo A.

Objective: Sleep problems are a common non-motor complication of Parkinson
disease (PD), and patients with essential tremor (ET) share a number of motor and
non-motor features of PD. To clarify the relationship between these disorders, we
evaluated and the sleep problems in patients with ET and PD using assessment
scales and objective polysomnographic (PSG) testing.
Method: Twenty-one consecutive patients with PD, 16 with ET, and 14 healthy
subjects participated in this study and were compared in terms of sleep related
complaints, final sleep related diagnosis, and polysomnographic features.
Results: The results of our study have shown that patients with PD were more
likely than were those with ET to have a history of REM sleep behavior disorders 
(RBD) (p = 0.001) and excessive daytime sleepiness (p ≤ 0.05). Additionally, PSG 
data revealed that ET patients had lower mean SpO2 values (p ≤ 0.05) and REM
without atonia (RWA) (p = 0.032) than did patients with PD.
Conclusion: This is the first study to use PSG to evaluate sleep problems both in
ET and PD patients. The results point out different sleep problems in these two
common movement disorders which should be investigated in further studies.

© 2015 American Academy of Sleep Medicine.

PMID: 25700875  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


526. Autophagy. 2015 Feb;11(2):428-9. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2015.1009794.

USP8 and PARK2/parkin-mediated mitophagy.

Durcan TM(1), Fon EA.

Author information: 
(1)a McGill Parkinson's Program ; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery ;
Montreal Neurological Institute ; McGill University ; Montreal , Canada.

The Parkinson disease (PD)-associated E3-ubiquitin (Ub) ligase PARK2/parkin plays
a central role in many stress response pathways, and in particular, in
mitochondrial quality control. Within this pathway, PARK2 activation is
accompanied by a robust increase in its autoubiquitination, followed by clearance
of the damaged mitochondria by selective autophagy (mitophagy). Yet, little is
known about how this auto-ubiquitination is regulated during mitophagy. In our
study, we demonstrate that PARK2 forms predominantly K6-linked Ub conjugates on
itself. Moreover, PARK2 interacts with the deubiquitinating enzyme USP8 that
preferentially removes these K6-linked conjugates, thereby regulating the
activity and function of PARK2 in the pathway. When USP8 is silenced, a
persistence of K6-linked Ub conjugates on PARK2 delays both its translocation to 
damaged mitochondria and successful completion of mitophagy. Taken together,
these findings implicate a novel role for K6-linked Ub conjugates and
USP8-mediated deubiquitination in the regulation of PARK2 in mitochondrial
quality control.

PMID: 25700639  [PubMed - in process]


527. Enliven J Stem Cell Res Regen Med. 2014;1(1):1-9.

Regenerative Medicine for the Aging Brain.

Lopez-Leon M, Reggiani PC, Herenu CB, Goya RG.

In the central nervous system, cholinergic and dopaminergic (DA) neurons are
among the cells most susceptible to the deleterious effects of age. Thus, the
basal forebrain cholinergic system is known to undergo moderate neurodegenerative
changes during normal aging as well as severe atrophy in Alzheimer's disease
(AD). Parkinson's disease (PD), a degeneration of nigro-striatal DA neurons is
the most conspicuous reflection of the vulnerability of DA neurons to age. In
this context, cell reprogramming offers novel therapeutic possibilities for the
treatment of these devastating diseases. In effect, the generation of induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from somatic cells demonstrated that adult
mammalian cells can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state by the overexpression 
of a few embryonic transcription factors (TF). This discovery fundamentally
widened the research horizon in the fields of disease modeling and regenerative
medicine. Although it is possible to re-differentiate iPSCs to specific somatic
cell types, the tumorigenic potential of contaminating iPSCs that failed to
differentiate, increases the risk for clinical application of somatic cells
generated by this procedure. Therefore, reprogramming approaches that bypass the 
pluripotent stem cell state are being explored. A method called lineage
reprogramming has been recently documented. It consists of the direct conversion 
of one adult cell type into another by transgenic expression of multiple
lineage-specific TF or microRNAs. Another approach, termed direct reprogramming, 
features several advantages such as the use of universal TF system and the
ability to generate a rejuvenated multipotent progenitor cell population, able to
differentiate into specific cell types in response to a specific differentiation 
factors. These novel approaches offer a new promise for the treatment of
pathologies associated with the loss of specific cell types as for instance,
nigral DA neurons (in PD) or basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the early
stages of AD. The above topics are reviewed here.

PMCID: PMC4330563
PMID: 25699290  [PubMed]


528. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Feb 2;9:14. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00014. eCollection 
2015.

Systems biology analysis of the proteomic alterations induced by MPP(+), a
Parkinson's disease-related mitochondrial toxin.

Monti C(1), Bondi H(2), Urbani A(3), Fasano M(2), Alberio T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Research Division, Department of Theoretical and Applied Sciences, 
University of Insubria Busto Arsizio, Italy. (2)Biomedical Research Division,
Department of Theoretical and Applied Sciences, University of Insubria Busto
Arsizio, Italy ; Center of Neuroscience, University of Insubria Busto Arsizio,
Italy. (3)Santa Lucia IRCCS Foundation Rome, Italy ; Department of Experimental
Medicine and Surgery, University of Rome "Tor Vergata," Rome, Italy.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease whose etiology
has not been completely characterized. Many cellular processes have been proposed
to play a role in the neuronal damage and loss: defects in the proteosomal
activity, altered protein processing, increased reactive oxygen species burden.
Among them, the involvement of a decreased activity and an altered disposal of
mitochondria is becoming more and more evident. The mitochondrial toxin
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), an inhibitor of complex I, has been widely 
used to reproduce biochemical alterations linked to PD in vitro and its
precursor, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP), to 
induce a Parkinson-like syndrome in vivo. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis
of the literature of all the proteomic investigations of neuronal alterations due
to MPP(+) treatment and compared it with our results obtained with a
mitochondrial proteomic analysis of SH-SY5Y cells treated with MPP(+). By using
open-source bioinformatics tools, we identified the biochemical pathways and the 
molecular functions mostly affected by MPP(+), i.e., ATP production, the
mitochondrial unfolded stress response, apoptosis, autophagy, and, most
importantly, the synapse funcionality. Eventually, we generated protein networks,
based on physical or functional interactions, to highlight the relationships
among the molecular actors involved. In particular, we identified the
mitochondrial protein HSP60 as the central hub in the protein-protein interaction
network. As a whole, this analysis clarified the cellular responses to MPP(+),
the specific mitochondrial proteome alterations induced and how this toxic model 
can recapitulate some pathogenetic events of PD.

PMCID: PMC4313704
PMID: 25698928  [PubMed]


529. Behav Brain Res. 2015 May 1;284:196-206. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.01.053. Epub
2015 Feb 16.

A partial lesion model of Parkinson's disease in mice--characterization of a
6-OHDA-induced medial forebrain bundle lesion.

Boix J(1), Padel T(1), Paul G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neurology Group, Department of Clinical Sciences, Wallenberg
Neuroscience Center, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. (2)Translational Neurology
Group, Department of Clinical Sciences, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Lund
University, Lund, Sweden; Department of Neurology, Scania University Hospital,
Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: Gesine.paul@med.lu.se.

The most frequently used animal models for Parkinson's disease (PD) utilize
unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the medial forebrain bundle
(MFB), which results in total denervation of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal
pathway. However, neuroprotective interventions in PD require models resembling
earlier stages of PD, where some dopaminergic cells and fibres remain. The aim of
the present study was therefore to establish a MFB partial lesion model in mice. 
We tested four different 6-OHDA doses, and our results show a dose-dependent loss
of nigral dopaminergic cells and striatal fibres that correlated with behavioural
impairment in several behavioural tests. Specifically, doses of 0.7 μg and 1 μg
of 6-OHDA induced a partial denervation of the nigrostriatal pathway, associated 
with a mild but quantifiable behavioural impairment. We identified the
amphetamine-induced rotation, stepping, corridor and cylinder test to be
sensitive enough to select partial lesion animals. Based on our data, we proposed
a range of cut-off values for these different behavioural tests to select partial
lesion mice. Using a statistical prediction model we identified two behavioural
tests (the stepping test and amphetamine-induced rotation test) that with a high 
sensitivity and specificity predict the extent of nigral dopaminergic cell loss
and select mice with a partial nigrostriatal lesion prior to further
interventions. This model can serve as an important tool to study neuroprotective
therapies for PD in mouse models, especially when the treatment targets the
substantia nigra and/or the striatum.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25698603  [PubMed - in process]


530. Behav Brain Res. 2015 May 1;284:153-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.02.019. Epub 2015 
Feb 16.

A time-course study of behavioral and electrophysiological characteristics in a
mouse model of different stages of Parkinson's disease using 6-hydroxydopamine.

Park SE(1), Song KI(2), Suh JK(3), Hwang D(4), Youn I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology,
Hwarangno 14-gil 5, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic of Korea; Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, Korea University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul
136-701, Republic of Korea. (2)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of 
Science and Technology, Hwarangno 14-gil 5, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic 
of Korea; Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Yonsei University,
50 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-749, Republic of Korea. (3)Biomedical
Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Hwarangno 14-gil
5, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic of Korea. (4)Department of Electrical and
Electronic Engineering, Yonsei University, 50 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul
120-749, Republic of Korea. (5)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of 
Science and Technology, Hwarangno 14-gil 5, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic 
of Korea; Korea University of Science and Technology, Hwarangno 14-gil 5,
Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
iyoun@kist.re.kr.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by abnormal motor symptoms and
increased neuronal activity in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) as the disease
progresses. We investigated the behavioral and electrophysiological
characteristics in a mouse model mimicking the progressive stages of human PD
(early, moderate, and advanced) by injecting 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the 
right medial forebrain bundle (MFB) at three different concentrations (2, 4, and 
6 μg/2 μl). Significant changes in motor symptoms were demonstrated between
groups in association with relative TH-positive cell loss in the substantia nigra
pars compacta (SNc). Moreover, electrophysiologically assessed changes in the
mean neuronal firing rate in the STN neurons were comparable to those in the
early to advanced stages of human PD. Thus, the mouse model presented herein
replicates the unique characteristics of each progressive stage of PD, in both
motor and neurophysiological aspects, and therefore can be useful for further
investigations of PD pathology.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25698596  [PubMed - in process]


531. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Feb 19. [Epub ahead of print]

Speech Prosody Across Stimulus Types for Individuals with Parkinson's Disease.

Ma JK(1), Schneider CB(2), Hoffmann R(3), Storch A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Audiology, Speech and Language Research Centre (CASL), Queen Margaret
University, Edinburgh, UK. (2)Division of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Department 
of Neurology, Dresden University of Technology, Dresden, Germany German Centre
for Neurodegenerative Disease (DZNE), Dresden, Germany. (3)Institute of Acoustics
and Speech Communication, Dresden University of Technology, Germany.

Background: Up to 89% of the individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) experience
speech problem over the course of the disease. Speech prosody and intelligibility
are two of the most affected areas in hypokinetic dysarthria. However, assessment
of these areas could potentially be problematic as speech prosody and
intelligibility could be affected by the type of speech materials employed.
Objective: To comparatively explore the effects of different types of speech
stimulus on speech prosody and intelligibility in PD speakers. Methods: Speech
prosody and intelligibility of two groups of individuals with varying degree of
dysarthria resulting from PD was compared to that of a group of control speakers 
using sentence reading, passage reading and monologue. Acoustic analysis
including measures on fundamental frequency (F0), intensity and speech rate was
used to form a prosodic profile for each individual. Speech intelligibility was
measured for the speakers with dysarthria using direct magnitude estimation.
Results: Difference in F0 variability between the speakers with dysarthria and
control speakers was only observed in sentence reading task. Difference in the
average intensity level was observed for speakers with mild dysarthria to that of
the control speakers. Additionally, there were stimulus effect on both
intelligibility and prosodic profile. Conclusions: The prosodic profile of PD
speakers was different from that of the control speakers in the more structured
task, and lower intelligibility was found in less structured task. This
highlighted the value of both structured and natural stimulus to evaluate speech 
production in PD speakers.

PMID: 25697957  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


532. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2015 Mar;156:45-56. doi: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2015.02.001. Epub 
2015 Feb 16.

Dopaminergic medication alters auditory distractor processing in Parkinson's
disease.

Georgiev D(1), Jahanshahi M(2), Dreo J(3), Čuš A(4), Pirtošek Z(5), Repovš G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre, Zaloška cesta 2, 1000
Ljubljana, Slovenia; Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement
Disorders, Institute of Neurology, University College London, 33 Queen Square,
London WC1N 3BG, United Kingdom. Electronic address: dgeorgiev@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, Institute of
Neurology, University College London, 33 Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, United
Kingdom. Electronic address: m.jahanshahi@ucl.ac.uk. (3)Department of Neurology, 
University Medical Centre, Zaloška cesta 2, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic 
address: jurij.dreo@gmail.com. (4)Department of Neurology, University Medical
Centre, Zaloška cesta 2, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address:
anja.cus@gmail.com. (5)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre,
Zaloška cesta 2, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address:
zvezdan.pirtosek@kclj.si. (6)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, Aškerčeva
2, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: grega.repovs@psy.ff.uni-lj.si.

Parkinson's disease (PD) patients show signs of cognitive impairment, such as
executive dysfunction, working memory problems and attentional disturbances, even
in the early stages of the disease. Though motor symptoms of the disease are
often successfully addressed by dopaminergic medication, it still remains
unclear, how dopaminergic therapy affects cognitive function. The main objective 
of this study was to assess the effect of dopaminergic medication on visual and
auditory attentional processing. 14 PD patients and 13 matched healthy controls
performed a three-stimulus auditory and visual oddball task while their EEG was
recorded. The patients performed the task twice, once on- and once
off-medication. While the results showed no significant differences between PD
patients and controls, they did reveal a significant increase in P3 amplitude on-
vs. off-medication specific to processing of auditory distractors and no other
stimuli. These results indicate significant effect of dopaminergic therapy on
processing of distracting auditory stimuli. With a lack of between group
differences the effect could reflect either 1) improved recruitment of
attentional resources to auditory distractors; 2) reduced ability for cognitive
inhibition of auditory distractors; 3) increased response to distractor stimuli
resulting in impaired cognitive performance; or 4) hindered ability to
discriminate between auditory distractors and targets. Further studies are needed
to differentiate between these possibilities.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25697781  [PubMed - in process]


533. J Alzheimers Dis. 2015 Jan 1;45(4):1207-22. doi: 10.3233/JAD-142688.

A Bird's-Eye View of Alzheimer's Disease Research: Reflecting Different
Perspectives of Indexers, Authors, or Citers in Mapping the Field.

Lee D(1), Kim WC(1), Charidimou A(2), Song M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Library and Information Science, Yonsei University,
Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Stroke Research Group, Department of
Brain Repair and Rehabilitation, UCL Institute of Neurology and The National
Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London, UK.

During the last 30 years, Alzheimer's disease (AD) research, aiming to understand
the pathophysiology and to improve the diagnosis, management, and, ultimately,
treatment of the disease, has grown rapidly. Recently, some studies have used
simple bibliometric approaches to investigate research trends and advances in the
field. In our study, we map the AD research field by applying entitymetrics, an
extended concept of bibliometrics, to capture viewpoints of indexers, authors, or
citers. Using the full-text documents with reference section retrieved from
PubMed Central, we constructed four types of networks: MeSH-MeSH (MM),
MeSH-Citation-MeSH (MCM), Keyphrase-Keyphrase (KK), and
Keyphrase-Citation-Keyphrase (KCK) networks. The working hypothesis was that
MeSH, keyphrase, and citation relationships reflect the views of indexers,
authors, and/or citers, respectively. In comparative network and centrality
analysis, we found that those views are different: indexers emphasize
amyloid-related entities, including methodological terms, while authors focus on 
specific biomedical terms, including clinical syndromes. The more dense and
complex networks of citing relationships reported in our study, to a certain
extent reflect the impact of basic science discoveries in AD. However, none of
these could have had clinical relevance for patients without close collaboration 
between investigators in translational and clinical-related AD research
(reflected in indexers and authors' networks). Our approach has relevance for
researches in the field, since they can identify relations between different
developments which are not otherwise evident. These developments combined with
advanced visualization techniques, might aid the discovery of novel interactions 
between genes and pathways or used as a resource to advance clinical drug
development.

PMID: 25697702  [PubMed - in process]


534. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):372-7. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.015. Epub 2015 Feb 7.

Topography of cortical thinning associated with white matter hyperintensities in 
Parkinson's disease.

Ham JH(1), Yun HJ(2), Sunwoo MK(3), Hong JY(4), Lee JM(2), Sohn YH(1), Lee PH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, South
Korea. (2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, South 
Korea. (3)Department of Neurology, Bundang Jesaeng General Hospital, Seongnam,
South Korea. (4)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University Wonju College of
Medicine, Wonju, South Korea. (5)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea; Severance Biomedical Science Institute, 
Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: phisland@chol.net.

BACKGROUND: Although white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are associated with
cognitive impairments in Parkinson's disease (PD), the relationships between WMHs
and cortical atrophy in regard to cognitive impairments are unknown. Here, we
investigated the topography of cortical thinning related to deep (DWMHs) and
periventricular WMHs (PWMHs) and their differential impacts on cognitive
performance in PD.
METHODS: We enrolled 87 patients with non-demented PD and evaluated WMH scores
using a semi-quantitative visual rating system. The patients were divided into
low-, moderate-, and high-grade groups based on WMH severity for total WMHs
(TWMHs), DWMHs, and PWMHs, and cortical thickness was measured using a
surface-based method according to the WMHs severity. Additionally, the
correlations between WMH-associated cortical thinning and neuropsychological
performance were analyzed.
RESULTS: The detailed neuropsychological test demonstrated that PD patients with 
high-grade WMHs showed poorer performance on frontal lobe-based cognitive tasks
compared with those with low-grade DWMHs. The areas of cortical thinning were
more extensive in patients with DWMHs, involving the entire frontal areas and
restricted temporoparietal areas, whereas in patients with PWMHs, cortical
thinning was localized in the small frontal areas. A multiple regression analysis
of the relationships between WMH-associated cortical thickness and cognition
revealed that DWMH-associated frontal thickness had an independent effect on
frontal lobe-based cognition, while frontal thickness related to PWMHs did not
have a significant correlation with cognitive tasks.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that in patients with PD, DWMHs are closely
coupled with decreased cortical thickness in the frontal areas and may lead to
declines in executive function.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25697488  [PubMed - in process]


535. Clin Rehabil. 2015 Feb 19. pii: 0269215515570377. [Epub ahead of print]

Does attentional focus during balance training in people with Parkinson's disease
affect outcome? A randomised controlled clinical trial.

Landers MR(1), Hatlevig RM(2), Davis AD(2), Richards AR(2), Rosenlof LE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Nevada Las Vegas, USA
merrill.landers@unlv.edu. (2)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Nevada
Las Vegas, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects of attentional focus to augment balance
outcomes in individuals with Parkinson's disease.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled clinical trial.
SETTING: University gait and balance research laboratory.
PARTICIPANTS: Forty-nine individuals with idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomly assigned into one of four groups (three
balance intervention groups and one control). The three intervention groups all
received the same 4-week balance training program augmented with either external,
internal, or no focus instructions. The control group did not receive any balance
training.
MAIN MEASURES: Outcomes were measured at baseline, post intervention, 2-weeks
post intervention, and 8-weeks post intervention and included: Sensory
Organization Test, Berg Balance Scale, Self-Selected Gait Velocity, Dynamic Gait 
Index, Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale, and obstacle course
completion time.
RESULTS: There were no differences among the groups in trajectory over the course
of the trial for all outcomes (ps ⩾ .135). All groups improved from baseline to
post intervention and from baseline to 2-weeks post intervention for all outcomes
(ps ⩽ .003), except Self-Selected Gait Velocity, which did not change over the
course of the trial (P = .121).
CONCLUSIONS: Attentional focus instructions to augment a 4-week balance training 
program did not result in any change over and above a control group in measures
of gait and balance in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Additionally, while 
all four groups improved, there was no difference among the groups, including the
control, suggesting that the 4-week balance training program in this trial was
not effective.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25697454  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


536. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Apr;36(4):1757-63. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.01.016. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Effects of aging and gender on striatal and extrastriatal [(123)I]FP-CIT binding 
in Parkinson's disease.

Kaasinen V(1), Joutsa J(2), Noponen T(3), Johansson J(4), Seppänen M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Turku and Turku University
Hospital, Turku, Finland; Turku PET Centre, University of Turku and Turku
University Hospital, Turku, Finland. Electronic address:
valtteri.kaasinen@tyks.fi. (2)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of
Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland; Turku PET Centre, University
of Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland; Department of Clinical
Neurophysiology, University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku,
Finland. (3)Department of Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine, University of
Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland. (4)Turku PET Centre,
University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland. (5)Turku PET
Centre, University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland;
Department of Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine, University of Turku and
Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.

To investigate the effects of aging and gender on brain dopamine and serotonin
transporter bindings, we analyzed [(123)I]FP-CIT single-photon emission computed 
tomography scans of 231 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and 230 controls. An
automated region-of-interest-based method (BRASS automated analysis software) was
used for striatal regions and a voxel-based method (Statistical Parametric
Mapping software, SPM8) for the entire brain. In controls, aging was associated
with a decline of 3.6%-4.6% per decade in striatal binding. Multiple
extrastriatal regions also showed age-related declines. In PD patients,
age-related declines were only observed in the caudate nuclei, thalamus,
olfactory, and cingulate cortices with a comparable rate of decline as that in
controls. Female subjects had higher caudate nucleus binding compared with males 
with a similar near-significant difference in the right putamen. The results
demonstrate that the aging effect is limited in PD, which is possibly because of 
disease-related excess variation, and the results do not support the theory of
accelerated aging of the dopaminergic system in PD. Women have higher caudate
nucleus dopamine transporter binding compared with men in both normal and
degenerated dopamine systems.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25697414  [PubMed - in process]


537. Neurosci Res. 2015 Feb 16. pii: S0168-0102(15)00037-1. doi:
10.1016/j.neures.2015.02.003. [Epub ahead of print]

The NR2B antagonist, ifenprodil, corrects the l-DOPA-induced deficit of bilateral
movement and reduces c-Fos expression in the subthalamic nucleus of
hemiparkinsonian rats.

Igarashi M(1), Habata T(2), Akita H(3), Noda K(4), Ogata M(5), Saji M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Science, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kitasato
University, Sagamihara, Japan. Electronic address: mi07511r@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Brain Science, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kitasato
University, Sagamihara, Japan; Department of Occupational Therapy, School of
Allied Health Sciences, Kitasato University, Sagamihara, Japan. Electronic
address: habata@kitasato-u.ac.jp. (3)Division of Brain Science, Graduate School
of Medical Sciences, Kitasato University, Sagamihara, Japan; Department of
Physiology, School of Allied Health Sciences, Kitasato University, Sagamihara,
Japan. Electronic address: akita310@ahs.kitasato-u.ac.jp. (4)Department of
Physiology, School of Allied Health Sciences, Kitasato University, Sagamihara,
Japan. Electronic address: noda1219@ahs.kitasato-u.ac.jp. (5)Department of
Physiology, School of Allied Health Sciences, Kitasato University, Sagamihara,
Japan. Electronic address: masa422@ahs.kitasato-u.ac.jp. (6)Division of Brain
Science, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kitasato University, Sagamihara,
Japan; Department of Physiology, School of Allied Health Sciences, Kitasato
University, Sagamihara, Japan. Electronic address: sajim@ahs.kitasato-u.ac.jp.

The use of NR2B antagonists in Parkinsonism is still controversial. To examine
their anti-parkinsonian effects, the NR2B antagonist, ifenprodil, and l-DOPA were
administered together and separately in hemiparkinsonian rats (hemi-PD) that were
subjected to a cylinder test. Recovery from hypoactivity was achieved by single
administration of 3-7mg/kg of l-DOPA; however, improvement in the deficit of
bilateral forelimb use was not observed. When administered alone, ifenprodil had 
no anti-parkinsonian effects; however, combined administration of ifenprodil and 
7mg/kg of l-DOPA significantly reversed the deficit of bilateral forelimb use
without adversely affecting the l-DOPA-induced improvement in motor activity.
Next, in order to identify the brain area influenced by l-DOPA and ifenprodil,
quantitative analysis of l-DOPA-induced c-Fos immunoreactivity was performed in
various brain areas of hemi-PD following administration of l-DOPA with and
without ifenprodil. Among brain areas with robust c-Fos expression within the
motor loop circuit in dopamine-depleted hemispheres, co-administered ifenprodil
markedly attenuated l-DOPA-induced c-Fos expression in only the subthalamic
nucleus (STN), suggesting that the STN is the primary target for the
anti-parkinsonian action of NR2B antagonists.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25697393  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


538. Prion. 2015 Jan 2;9(1):48-58. doi: 10.1080/19336896.2015.1019194.

Metals in obex and retropharyngeal lymph nodes of Illinois white-tailed deer and 
their variations associated with CWD status.

Rivera NA(1), Novakofski J, Weng HY, Kelly A, Satterthwaite-Phillips D, Ruiz MO, 
Mateus-Pinilla N.

Author information: 
(1)a Illinois Natural History Survey ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
; Champaign , IL USA ;

Prion proteins (PrP(C)) are cell membrane glycoproteins that can be found in many
cell types, but specially in neurons. Many studies have suggested PrP(C)'s
participation in metal transport and cellular protection against stress in the
central nervous system (CNS). On the other hand PrP(Sc), the misfolded isoform of
PrP(C) and the pathogenic agent in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies
(TSE), has been associated with brain metal dyshomeostasis in prion diseases.
Thus, changes in metal concentration associated with protein misfolding and
aggregation have been reported for human and animal prion diseases, as well as
for other neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's
disease. The use of metal concentrations in tissues as surrogate markers for
early detection of TSEs has been suggested. Studies on the accumulation of metals
in free-ranging white-tailed deer have not been conducted. This study established
concentrations of copper, iron, manganese, and magnesium in 2 diagnostic tissues 
used for CWD testing (obex and retropharyngeal lymph nodes (RLN)). We compared
these concentrations between tissues and in relation to CWD status. We
established reference intervals (RIs) for these metals and explored their ability
to discriminate between CWD-positive and CWD-negative animals. Our results
indicate that independent of CWD status, white-tailed deer accumulate higher
concentrations of Fe, Mn and Mg in RLN than in obex. White-tailed deer infected
with CWD accumulated significantly lower concentrations of Mn and Fe than
CWD-negative deer. These patterns differed from other species infected with prion
diseases. Overlapping values between CWD positive and negative groups indicate
that evaluation of these metals in obex and RLN may not be appropriate as a
diagnostic tool for CWD infection in white-tailed deer. Because the CWD-negative 
deer were included in constructing the RIs, high specificities were expected and 
should be interpreted with caution. Due to the low sensitivity derived from the
RIs, we do not recommend using metal concentrations for disease discrimination.

PMID: 25695915  [PubMed - in process]


539. Nanoscale. 2015 Mar 21;7(11):5004-13. doi: 10.1039/c4nr06009a.

Protein corona composition of gold nanoparticles/nanorods affects amyloid beta
fibrillation process.

Mirsadeghi S(1), Dinarvand R, Ghahremani MH, Hormozi-Nezhad MR, Mahmoudi Z,
Hajipour MJ, Atyabi F, Ghavami M, Mahmoudi M.

Author information: 
(1)Nanotechnology Research Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of
Medical Science, Tehran, Iran. dinarvand@tums.ac.ir mahmoudi@stanford.edu.

Protein fibrillation process (e.g., from amyloid beta (Aβ) and α-synuclein) is
the main cause of several catastrophic neurodegenerative diseases such as
Alzheimer's and Parkinson diseases. During the past few decades, nanoparticles
(NPs) were recognized as one of the most promising tools for inhibiting the
progress of the disease by controlling the fibrillation kinetic process; for
instance, gold NPs have a strong capability to inhibit Aβ fibrillations. It is
now well understood that a layer of biomolecules would cover the surface of NPs
(so called "protein corona") upon the interaction of NPs with protein sources.
Due to the fact that the biological species (e.g., cells and amyloidal proteins) 
"see" the protein corona coated NPs rather than the pristine coated particles,
one should monitor the fibrillation process of amyloidal proteins in the presence
of corona coated NPs (and not pristine coated ones). Therefore, the previously
obtained data on NPs effects on the fibrillation process should be modified to
achieve a more reliable and predictable in vivo results. Herein, we probed the
effects of various gold NPs (with different sizes and shapes) on the fibrillation
process of Aβ in the presence and absence of protein sources (i.e., serum and
plasma). We found that the protein corona formed a shell at the surface of gold
NPs, regardless of their size and shape, reducing the access of Aβ to the gold
inhibitory surface and, therefore, affecting the rate of Aβ fibril formation.
More specifically, the anti-fibrillation potencies of various corona coated gold 
NPs were strongly dependent on the protein source and their concentrations (10%
serum/plasma (simulation of an in vitro milieu) and 100% serum/plasma (simulation
of an in vivo milieu)).

PMID: 25695421  [PubMed - in process]


540. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2015 Feb 20;64(6):141-3.

Hypothermia-related deaths--Wisconsin, 2014, and United States, 2003-2013.

Meiman J, Anderson H, Tomasallo C; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC).

Hypothermia is defined as a core body temperature of <95°F (<35°C) and is caused 
by environmental exposure, drug intoxication, or metabolic or nervous system
dysfunction. Exposure to cold is a leading cause of weather-related mortality and
is responsible for approximately twice the number of deaths annually as exposure 
to heat in the United States. To understand the risk factors for
hypothermia-related death and improve prevention efforts, during January 1-April 
30, 2014, a period of record low temperatures, the Wisconsin Division of Public
Health began active surveillance for hypothermia. Suspected hypothermia-related
deaths were reported by coroners or medical examiners and identified in death
records. Hypothermia was confirmed as the cause of death by review of death
investigation narratives. This report describes three selected cases of
hypothermia-related deaths in Wisconsin and summarizes characteristics of all
cases that occurred in the state during the period of active surveillance. A
summary of hypothermia-related deaths for the United States during 2003-2013 also
is presented for comparison and to assess national mortality trends. Hypothermia 
continues to be an important cause of weather-related death. Key risk factors
include drug intoxication, mental illness, and social isolation. State and local 
health agencies might need to focus outreach on vulnerable populations and target
interventions for groups at highest risk for death.

PMID: 25695318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Neuropsychol Rehabil. 2015 Feb 19:1-20. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkinson's patients' executive profile and goals they set for improvement: Why
is cognitive rehabilitation not common practice?

Vlagsma TT(1), Koerts J, Fasotti L, Tucha O, van Laar T, Dijkstra H, Spikman JM.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Clinical & Developmental Neuropsychology , University of
Groningen , Groningen , The Netherlands.

Impairments in executive functions (EF) are the core cognitive impairment in
patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Surprisingly, cognitive rehabilitation is
not routinely offered to patients with PD. However, in patients with acquired
brain injury (ABI), cognitive rehabilitation, in particular strategic executive
training, is common practice and has been shown to be effective. In this study,
we determined whether PD patients have different needs and aims with regard to
strategic executive training than ABI patients, and whether possible differences 
might be a reason for not offering this kind of cognitive rehabilitation
programme to patients with PD. Patients' needs and aims were operationalised by
individually set goals, which were classified into domains of EF and daily life. 
In addition, patients with PD and ABI were compared on their cognitive, in
particular EF, profile. Overall, PD patients' goals and cognitive profile were
similar to those of patients with ABI. Therefore, based on the findings of this
study, there is no reason to assume that strategic executive training cannot be
part of standard therapy in PD. However, when strategic executive training is
applied in clinical practice, disease-specific characteristics need to be taken
into account.

PMID: 25693688  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


542. Masui. 2014 Oct;63(10):1106-10.

[Cardioversion for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia during lung surgery in
a patient with concealed Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato Y, Nagata H, Inoda A, Miura H, Watanabe Y, Suzuki K.

We report a case of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) that occurred 
during video-assisted thoracoscopic (VATS) lobectomy in a patient with concealed 
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome. A 59-year-old man with lung cancer was
scheduled for VATS lobectomy under general anesthesia. After inserting a thoracic
epidural catheter, general anesthesia was induced with intravenous administration
of propofol. Anesthesia was maintained with inhalation of desfurane in an
air/oxygen mixture and intravenous infusion of remifentanil. Recurrent PSVT
occurred three times, and the last episode of PSVT continued for 50 minutes
regardless of administration of antiarrhythmic drugs. Synchronized electric shock
via adhesive electrode pads on the patient's chest successfully converted PSVT
back to normal sinus rhythm. The remaining course and postoperative period were
uneventful. An electrophysiological study performed after hospital discharge
detected concealed WPW syndrome, which had contributed to the development of
atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia. Concealed WPW syndrome is a rare, but
critical complication that could possibly cause lethal atrial tachyarrhythmias
during the perioperative period. In the present case, cardioversion using
adhesive electrode pads briefly terminated PSVT in a patient with concealed WPW
syndrome.

PMID: 25693338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Neurologist. 2015 Feb;19(3):70-2. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0000000000000010.

Fluctuating Cotard syndrome in a patient with advanced Parkinson disease.

Solla P(1), Cannas A, Orofino G, Marrosu F.

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Center, Institute of Neurology, University of Cagliari,
Cagliari, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Nonmotor fluctuations of psychiatric symptoms in patients suffering
from Parkinson disease (PD) represent a very disabling condition, which may
seriously interfere with the quality of life of patients and caregivers. In this 
regard, these disturbances are present with a higher frequency in advanced PD
patients with associated motor complications and can appear both in "on" and in
"off" period. Here we report on a case of fluctuating Cotard syndrome clearly
related to "wearing-off" deterioration and responsive to levodopa treatment in a 
patient affected by advanced PD.
CASE REPORT: A 76-year-old woman presented with a 13-year history of PD. Her
caregivers reported that, in the last 2 months, she has developed a sudden onset 
of nihilistic delusion (Cotard syndrome), mainly during the "wearing-off"
condition and associated with end of dose dyskinesias and akathisia.As Cotard
syndrome clearly improved with the administration of levodopa, the patient was
successfully treated changing the levodopa schedule with the shortening of
intervals between levodopa intakes in small doses.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the appearance of the Cotard syndrome in this patient during
the "off" state and the subsequent improvement of psychotic symptoms after
levodopa administration strongly suggest an important correlation with the
dopaminergic dysregulation.This finding suggests that dopaminergic deficit might 
play a key factor in the development of Cotard syndrome.

PMID: 25692512  [PubMed - in process]


544. J Proteome Res. 2015 Apr 3;14(4):1854-71. doi: 10.1021/pr501221g. Epub 2015 Feb
26.

Senescent human fibroblasts show increased glycolysis and redox homeostasis with 
extracellular metabolomes that overlap with those of irreparable DNA damage,
aging, and disease.

James EL, Michalek RD(1), Pitiyage GN, de Castro AM, Vignola KS(1), Jones J(1),
Mohney RP(1), Karoly ED(1), Prime SS, Parkinson EK.

Author information: 
(1)‡Metabolon, Inc., 617 Davis Drive, Suite 400, Durham, North Carolina 27713,
United States.

Cellular senescence can modulate various pathologies and is associated with
irreparable DNA double-strand breaks (IrrDSBs). Extracellular senescence
metabolomes (ESMs) were generated from fibroblasts rendered senescent by
proliferative exhaustion (PEsen) or 20 Gy of γ rays (IrrDSBsen) and compared with
those of young proliferating cells, confluent cells, quiescent cells, and cells
exposed to repairable levels of DNA damage to identify novel noninvasive markers 
of senescent cells. ESMs of PEsen and IrrDSBsen overlapped and showed increased
levels of citrate, molecules involved in oxidative stress, a sterol,
monohydroxylipids, tryptophan metabolism, phospholipid, and nucleotide
catabolism, as well as reduced levels of dipeptides containing branched chain
amino acids. The ESM overlaps with the aging and disease body fluid metabolomes, 
supporting their utility in the noninvasive detection of human senescent cells in
vivo and by implication the detection of a variety of human pathologies.
Intracellular metabolites of senescent cells showed a relative increase in
glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, the pentose-phosphate pathway, and, consistent with 
this, pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase transcripts. In contrast, tricarboxylic acid 
cycle enzyme transcript levels were unchanged and their metabolites were
depleted. These results are surprising because glycolysis antagonizes senescence 
entry but are consistent with established senescent cells entering a state of low
oxidative stress.

PMID: 25690941  [PubMed - in process]


545. Clin Auton Res. 2015 Apr;25(2):109-16. doi: 10.1007/s10286-015-0270-5. Epub 2015 
Feb 18.

Non-dipping nocturnal blood pressure and psychosis parameters in Parkinson
disease.

Stuebner E(1), Vichayanrat E, Low DA, Mathias CJ, Isenmann S, Haensch CA.

Author information: 
(1)Autonomic Laboratory, Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology,
Faculty of Health, University of Witten/Herdecke, HELIOS-Klinikum Wuppertal,
Wuppertal, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Non-motor symptoms are increasingly recognized in Parkinson disease
(PD) and include physical as well as psychological symptoms. A psychological
condition that has been well studied in PD is psychosis. Cardiovascular autonomic
dysfunction in PD can include a reversed or loss of blood pressure (BP) circadian
rhythm, referred to as nocturnal non-dipping. The aim of this study was to
determine the relationship between 24 h ambulatory blood pressure measurements
(ABPM), i.e., absence or presence of nocturnal dipping, and psychosis scores in
PD.
METHODS: Twenty-one patiens with PD underwent 24 h ABPM using an autonomic
protocol. A decrease in nocturnal mean arterial blood pressure of less than 10 % 
was defined as non-dipping. Patients were interviewed (including the brief
psychiatric rating scale; BPRS) for the assessment of psychosis.
RESULTS: Eleven patients were dippers and 10 were non-dippers. BPRS scores were
higher in non-dippers, who, on average, met the criteria for psychosis (mean
non-dipper BPRS: 34.3 ± 7.3 vs mean dipper BPRS: 27.5 ± 5.3; cutoff for "mildly
ill" 31). There was a correlation between BPRS scores and non-dipping, indicating
that those patients who had a blunted nocturnal fall in BP were more prone to
psychotic symptoms (Pearson's Correlation = 0.554, p = 0.009).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that, among PD patients, a non-dipping
circadian rhythm is associated with more severe symptoms of psychosis than is a
dipping circadian rhythm. This association warrants further investigation.

PMID: 25690741  [PubMed - in process]


546. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Feb 18. doi: 10.1111/ane.12388. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical and stabilometric measures predicting falls in Parkinson
disease/parkinsonisms.

Gervasoni E(1), Cattaneo D, Messina P, Casati E, Montesano A, Bianchi E, Beghi E.

Author information: 
(1)LaRiCE: Gait and Balance Disorders Laboratory Department of
Neurorehabilitation, Don Gnocchi Foundation I.R.C.C.S, Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Clinical predictors of falls in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) 
are fairly inaccurate. Stabilometric measures appear useful in investigating the 
relationship between balance, sensory disturbance, and falls. The aim of the
study was to identify the best combination of clinical and stabilometric tests to
predict falls prospectively.
MATERIALS & METHODS: Fifty-three consecutive subjects with PD or parkinsonisms at
risk of falls were included and followed for 6 months. Clinical variables were
used as fall predictors: the Unified Parkinson Disease's Rating Scale (motor
section) and the Longitudinal Aging study Amsterdam Physical Activity
Questionnaire (LAPAQ). Variables from stabilometric platform underwent a
principal component analysis. Multivariate logistic models were used to predict
fallers using fall status (fallers: 1 + falls; recurrent fallers: 2 + falls) as
dependent variable.
RESULTS: Seven patients were lost to follow up, leaving 46 evaluable subjects. Of
these, 32 (70%) were fallers and 22 (48%) were recurrent fallers. The only
variable predicting fallers was the LAPAQ (odd ratio [OR] 0.99 (95% confidence
interval [CI] 0.98-1.00); accuracy 71.7%; sensitivity 87.5%; specificity 35.7%). 
For recurrent fallers, Factor 2 (body sway velocity) (OR 2.37; 95% CI 1.01-5.58) 
and, in part, LAPAQ (OR 0.99; 95% CI 0.98-1.00) retained significance in the
multivariate model, showing an accuracy of 76.9%, a sensitivity of 77.8%, and a
specificity of 76.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: A combination of clinical and instrumental tools is useful to
identify fallers in PD or parkinsonisms. Body sway velocity and ability to
perform the activities of daily living are the best predictors of recurrent
falls.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25690532  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


547. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2015 Feb 17. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12466. [Epub ahead of print]

Prodromal dementia with Lewy bodies.

Fujishiro H(1), Nakamura S, Sato K, Iseki E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sleep Medicine, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan.

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common neurodegenerative
dementing disorder after Alzheimer's disease (AD), but there is limited
information regarding the prodromal DLB state compared with that of AD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and DLB share common prodromal symptoms with Lewy body
disease (LBD), allowing us to use a common strategy for identifying the
individuals with an underlying pathophysiology of LBD. Dysautonomia, olfactory
dysfunction, rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) and psychiatric
symptoms antedate the onset of dementia by years or even decades in patients with
DLB. Although RBD is the most potentially accurate prodromal predictor of DLB,
disease progression before the onset of dementia could differ between the
prodromal DLB state with and without RBD. Experts who specialize in idiopathic
RBD and DLB might need communication in order to clarify the clinical relevance
of RBD with the disease progression of DLB. The presence of prodromal LBD
symptoms or findings of occipital hypoperfusion/hypometabolism helps us to
predict the possible pathophysiological process of LBD in non-demented patients. 
This approach might provide the opportunity for additional neuroimaging,
including cardiac (123) I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy and dopamine
transporter imaging. Although limited radiological findings in patients with
prodromal DLB states have been reported, there is now a need for larger clinical 
multisite studies with pathological verification. The long prodromal phase of DLB
provides a critical opportunity for potential intervention with disease-modifying
therapy, but only if we are able to clearly identify the diversity in the
clinical courses of DLB. In the present article, we reviewed the limited
literature regarding the clinical profiles of prodromal DLB. Geriatr Gerontol Int
2015; ●●: ●●-●●.

© 2015 Japan Geriatrics Society.

PMID: 25690399  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


548. Eur J Neurol. 2015 May;22(5):845-e60. doi: 10.1111/ene.12672. Epub 2015 Feb 18.

(18) F-FP-(+)-DTBZ positron emission tomography detection of monoaminergic
deficient network in patients with carbon monoxide related parkinsonism.

Chang CC(1), Hsiao IT, Huang SH, Lui CC, Yen TC, Chang WN, Huang CW, Hsieh CJ,
Chang YY, Lin KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung
University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although parkinsonism after carbon monoxide (CO)
intoxication is well known, neurotransmitter deficient networks that are
responsible for the severity of parkinsonism have rarely been systemically
evaluated.
METHODS: Eighteen patients with CO-related parkinsonism and nine age- and
sex-matched controls were enrolled for detailed neurological examinations,
three-dimensional T1-weighted images, diffusion tensor imaging and (18)
F-9-fluoropropyl-(+)-dihydrotetrabenzazine ((18) F-FP-(+)-DTBZ) positron emission
tomography (PET). The structural analysis included voxel-based morphometry to
assess grey matter atrophy and tract-based spatial statistics related to white
matter involvement. For presynaptic monoaminergic assessment, volume of interest 
analysis in six subcortical regions and non-parametric voxel-wise comparison were
performed on PET images with estimation of registration parameters from magnetic 
resonance images. All the imaging modalities were compared between the patients
and controls. For the patients, a regression model for correlation with cognitive
behaviour and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score was used.
RESULTS: In the patients, monoaminergic deficit networks were found in the
caudate, anterior putamen, anterior insular, thalamus and anterior cingulate
cortex. The UPDRS revealed significant correlations with the prefrontal white
matter fractional anisotropy values and with the (18) F-FP-(+)-DTBZ uptake values
in the caudate nucleus, insular, medial prefrontal and dorsomedial thalamus. The 
neuropsychiatric inventory score correlated with the (18) F-FP-(+)-DTBZ uptake
values in the anterior cingulate cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated monoaminergic deficits and white matter
damage networks in CO-related parkinsonism that determined the severity of
parkinsonism or behaviour changes. As the substantia nigra was spared, the
monoaminergic topography of involvement suggests a different pathophysiology in
CO-related parkinsonism.

© 2015 EAN.

PMID: 25690304  [PubMed - in process]


549. Biomark Med. 2015;9(2):89-97. doi: 10.2217/bmm.14.103.

Plasma near-infrared spectroscopy for diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's
disease: the SPIN-PD study.

Ravina B(1), Eberly S, Oakes D, Lang AE, Dodelet V, Roos P, Harman J, Shoulson I,
Schipper HM.

Author information: 
(1)Biogen Idec, 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

AIM: There are no established chemical biomarkers of idiopathic Parkinson's
disease (PD). The results of a prior metabolomics-based biomarker study suggested
that near-infrared spectroscopy of blood plasma samples may distinguish
idiopathic PD from neurologically normal controls.
METHODS: Near-infrared spectroscopy was used to detect and quantify substrate
modifications in blood plasma samples derived from 71 PD subjects enrolled in the
PostCEPT observational study and 68 normal control subjects.
RESULTS: Near-infrared spectra values were significantly higher in the PD group
compared with the control group when adjusted for age and gender (PD: adjusted
mean 0.49 [95% CI: 0.45-0.53]; control: adjusted mean 0.40 [95% CI: 0.36-0.44]; p
= 0.004, multiple regression).
CONCLUSION: Near-infrared spectra of blood plasma in early-stage idiopathic PD
differ from those of non-neurological control subjects. However, the degree of
overlap between the groups limits the use of this technique in its present form
as a PD biomarker for routine clinical practice.

PMID: 25689898  [PubMed - in process]


550. J Neurochem. 2015 Feb 17. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13070. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting cyclin D3/CDK6 activity for treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Alquézar C(1), Barrio E, Esteras N, de la Encarnación A, Bartolomé F, Molina JA, 
Martín-Requero Á.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Centro de Investigaciones
Biológicas (CSIC), Madrid, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de
Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), Madrid, Spain.

At present, treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) is only symptomatic;
therefore, it is important to identify new targets tackling the molecular causes 
of the disease. We previously found that lymphoblasts from sporadic PD patients
display increased activity of the cyclin D3/CDK6/pRb pathway and higher
proliferation than control cells. These features were considered systemic
manifestations of the disease, as aberrant activation of the cell cycle is
involved in neuronal apoptosis. The main goal of this work was to elucidate
whether the inhibition of cyclin D3/CDK6-associated kinase activity could be
useful in PD treatment. For this purpose, we investigated the effects of two
histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, suberoylanilide hydroxamic (SAHA) acid and
sodium butyrate (NaB), and the m-TOR inhibitor rapamycin on cell viability and
cyclin D3/CDK6 activity. Moreover, the potential neuroprotective action of these 
drugs was evaluated in 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA) treated dopaminergic SH-SY5Y
cells and primary rat mesencephalic cultures. Here, we report that both compounds
normalized the proliferative activity of PD lymphoblasts and reduced the
6-OHDA-induced cell death in neuronal cells by preventing the over-activation of 
the cyclin D3/CDK6/pRb cascade. Considering that these drugs are already used in 
clinic for treatment of other diseases with good tolerance, it is plausible that 
they may serve as novel therapeutic drugs for PD. We report here that peripheral 
cells from Parkinson's disease (PD) patients show an enhanced proliferative
activity due to the activation of cyclin D3/CDK6-mediated phosphorylation of
retinoblastoma protein (pRb). Treatment of PD lymphoblasts with inhibitors of
histone deacetylases like suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) and sodium
butyrate (NaB), or with rapamycin, inhibitor of mechanistic target of rapamycin
(mTOR) normalized the proliferation of PD lymphoblasts by preventing the
over-activation of the cyclin D3/CDK6/pRb cascade. These drugs were shown to have
neuroprotective effects in both human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and primary rat
mid-brain dopaminergic neuronal cultures toxicity induced by 6-hidroxydopamine.
Considering that these drugs are already used in clinic for treatment of other
diseases with good tolerance, it seems reasonable to believe that the
repositioning of these drugs toward PD holds promise as a novel therapeutic
strategy.

© 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMID: 25689470  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


551. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):328-38. doi: 10.1002/mds.26072. Epub 2015 Feb 17.

The subthalamic nucleus, oscillations, and conflict.

Zavala B(1), Zaghloul K, Brown P.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Neurology Group, Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurology,
University of Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK; Surgical Neurology
Branch, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

The subthalamic nucleus (STN), which is currently the most common target for deep
brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease (PD), has received increased
attention over the past few years for the roles it may play in functions beyond
simple motor control. In this article, we highlight several of the theoretical,
interventional, and electrophysiological studies that have implicated the STN in 
response inhibition. Most influential among this evidence has been the reported
effect of STN DBS in increasing impulsive responses in the laboratory setting.
Yet, how this relates to pathological impulsivity in patients' everyday lives
remains uncertain.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4357561 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25688872  [PubMed - in process]


552. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2015 Feb;63(2):399-401. doi: 10.1111/jgs.13279.

Nizatidine ameliorates slow transit constipation in Parkinson's disease.

Sakakibara R(1), Doi H, Sato M, Hirai S, Masaka T, Kishi M, Tsuyusaki Y, Tateno
A, Tateno F, Aiba Y, Ogata T, Suzuki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Internal Medicine, Sakura Medical Center,
Toho University, Sakura, Japan.

PMID: 25688620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Exp Neurol. 2015 Apr;266:42-54. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.02.008. Epub 2015
Feb 14.

Overexpression of GRK6 rescues l-DOPA-induced signaling abnormalities in the
dopamine-depleted striatum of hemiparkinsonian rats.

Ahmed MR(1), Bychkov E(1), Kook S(1), Zurkovsky L(1), Dalby KN(2), Gurevich
EV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
TN 37232, USA. (2)Division of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Texas at Austin,
Austin, TX 78712, USA. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. Electronic address:
Eugenia.Gurevich@vanderbilt.edu.

l-DOPA therapy in Parkinson's disease often results in side effects such as
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). Our previous studies demonstrated that defective
desensitization of dopamine receptors caused by decreased expression of G
protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) plays a role. Overexpression of GRK6, the
isoform regulating dopamine receptors, in parkinsonian rats and monkeys
alleviated LID and reduced LID-associated changes in gene expression. Here we
show that 2-fold lentivirus-mediated overexpression of GRK6 in the
dopamine-depleted striatum in rats unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine
ameliorated supersensitive ERK response to l-DOPA challenge caused by loss of
dopamine. A somewhat stronger effect of GRK6 was observed in drug-naïve than in
chronically l-DOPA-treated animals. GRK6 reduced the responsiveness of p38 MAP
kinase to l-DOPA challenge rendered supersensitive by dopamine depletion. The JNK
MAP kinase was unaffected by loss of dopamine, chronic or acute l-DOPA, or GRK6. 
Overexpressed GRK6 suppressed enhanced activity of Akt in the lesioned striatum
by reducing elevated phosphorylation at its major activating residue Thr(308).
Finally, GRK6 reduced accumulation of ΔFosB in the lesioned striatum, the effect 
that paralleled a decrease in locomotor sensitization to l-DOPA in
GRK6-expressing rats. The results suggest that elevated GRK6 facilitate
desensitization of DA receptors, thereby normalizing of the activity of multiple 
signaling pathways implicated in LID. Thus, improving the regulation of dopamine 
receptor function via the desensitization mechanism could be an effective way of 
managing LID.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25687550  [PubMed - in process]


554. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Apr 1;72(4):432-40. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4380.

Effects of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation on Motor Symptoms in
Parkinson Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Chou YH(1), Hickey PT(2), Sundman M(3), Song AW(3), Chen NK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Imaging and Analysis Center, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,
North Carolina2Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. (2)Department of Neurology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. (3)Brain Imaging and Analysis 
Center, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. (4)Brain Imaging 
and Analysis Center, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina4Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina.

IMPORTANCE: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive 
neuromodulation technique that has been closely examined as a possible treatment 
for Parkinson disease (PD). However, results evaluating the effectiveness of rTMS
in PD are mixed, mostly owing to low statistical power or variety in individual
rTMS protocols.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the rTMS effects on motor dysfunction in patients with
PD and to examine potential factors that modulate the rTMS effects.
DATA SOURCES: Databases searched included PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Knowledge,
Scopus, and the Cochrane Library from inception to June 30, 2014.
STUDY SELECTION: Eligible studies included sham-controlled, randomized clinical
trials of rTMS intervention for motor dysfunction in patients with PD.
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Relevant measures were extracted independently by 
2 investigators. Standardized mean differences (SMDs) were calculated with
random-effects models.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Motor examination of the Unified Parkinson's Disease 
Rating Scale.
RESULTS: Twenty studies with a total of 470 patients were included.
Random-effects analysis revealed a pooled SMD of 0.46 (95% CI, 0.29-0.64),
indicating an overall medium effect size favoring active rTMS over sham rTMS in
the reduction of motor symptoms (P < .001). Subgroup analysis showed that the
effect sizes estimated from high-frequency rTMS targeting the primary motor
cortex (SMD, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.46-1.08; P < .001) and low-frequency rTMS applied
over other frontal regions (SMD, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.13-0.87; P = .008) were
significant. The effect sizes obtained from the other 2 combinations of rTMS
frequency and rTMS site (ie, high-frequency rTMS at other frontal regions: SMD,
0.23; 95% CI, -0.02 to 0.48, and low primary motor cortex: SMD, 0.28; 95% CI,
-0.23 to 0.78) were not significant. Meta-regression revealed that a greater
number of pulses per session or across sessions is associated with larger rTMS
effects. Using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and
Evaluation criteria, we characterized the quality of evidence presented in this
meta-analysis as moderate quality.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The pooled evidence suggests that rTMS improves motor 
symptoms for patients with PD. Combinations of rTMS site and frequency as well as
the number of rTMS pulses are key modulators of rTMS effects. The findings of our
meta-analysis may guide treatment decisions and inform future research.

PMCID: PMC4425190
PMID: 25686212  [PubMed - in process]


555. ScientificWorldJournal. 2015;2015:787451. doi: 10.1155/2015/787451. Epub 2015 Jan
20.

The "gender factor" in wearing-off among patients with Parkinson's disease: a
post hoc analysis of DEEP study.

Colombo D(1), Abbruzzese G(2), Antonini A(3), Barone P(4), Bellia G(1), Franconi 
F(5), Simoni L(6), Attar M(1), Zagni E(1), Haggiag S(7), Stocchi F(8).

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Farma S.p.A., Origgio, Varese 21040, Italy. (2)Department of
Neurosciences, University of Genoa, Genoa 16132, Italy. (3)Department of
Parkinson's Disease, IRCCS San Camillo, Venice 30126, Italy. (4)Scuola Medica
Salernitana, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Salerno 84100, Italy.
(5)Department of Biomedical Science, University of Sassari, Sassari 07100, Italy.
(6)MediData srl, Modena 41123, Italy. (7)Department of Neurology, San
Camillo-Forlanini Hospital, Rome 00151, Italy. (8)Department of Neurology,
Institute of Research and Medical Care, IRCCS San Raffaele, Rome 00163, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The early detection of wearing-off in Parkinson disease (DEEP)
observational study demonstrated that women with Parkinson's disease (PD) carry
an increased risk (80.1%) for wearing-off (WO). This post hoc analysis of DEEP
study evaluates gender differences on WO and associated phenomena.
METHODS: Patients on dopaminergic treatment for ≥ 1 year were included in this
multicenter observational cross-sectional study. In a single visit, WO was
diagnosed based on neurologist assessment as well as the use of the 19-item
wearing-off questionnaire (WOQ-19); WO was defined for scores ≥ 2. Post hoc
analyses were conducted to investigate gender difference for demographic and
clinical features with respect to WO.
RESULTS: Of 617 patients enrolled, 236 were women and 381 were men. Prevalence of
WO was higher among women, according to both neurologists' judgment (61.9% versus
53.8%, P = 0.045) and the WOQ-19 analysis (72.5% versus 64.0%, P = 0.034). In
patients with WO (WOQ-19), women experienced ≥ 1 motor symptom in 72.5% versus
64.0% in men and ≥ 1 nonmotor symptom in 44.5% versus 36.7%, in men.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest WO as more common among women, for both motor
and nonmotor symptoms. Prospective studies are warranted to investigate this
potential gender-effect.

PMCID: PMC4320843
PMID: 25685848  [PubMed - in process]


556. Neuroimage Clin. 2015 Jan 27;7:449-55. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2015.01.012.
eCollection 2015.

Altered intrinsic functional coupling between core neurocognitive networks in
Parkinson's disease.

Putcha D(1), Ross RS(2), Cronin-Golomb A(3), Janes AC(4), Stern CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Boston University, Boston, MA 
02115, USA ; Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA. (2)Department of Psychological and Brain
Sciences, Boston University, Boston, MA 02115, USA ; Athinoula A. Martinos Center
for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA ;
Department of Psychology, University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH 03824, USA.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Boston University, Boston, MA 
02115, USA. (4)McLean Imaging Center, McLean Hospital, Department of Psychiatry, 
Harvard Medical School, Belmont, MA 02478, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is largely attributed to disruptions in the
nigrostriatal dopamine system. These neurodegenerative changes may also have a
more global effect on intrinsic brain organization at the cortical level.
Functional brain connectivity between neurocognitive systems related to cognitive
processing is critical for effective neural communication, and is disrupted
across neurological disorders. Three core neurocognitive networks have been
established as playing a critical role in the pathophysiology of many
neurological disorders: the default-mode network (DMN), the salience network
(SN), and the central executive network (CEN). In healthy adults, DMN-CEN
interactions are anti-correlated while SN-CEN interactions are strongly
positively correlated even at rest, when individuals are not engaging in any
task. These intrinsic between-network interactions at rest are necessary for
efficient suppression of the DMN and activation of the CEN during a range of
cognitive tasks. To identify whether these network interactions are disrupted in 
individuals with PD, we used resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging 
(rsfMRI) to compare between-network connectivity between 24 PD participants and
20 age-matched controls (MC). In comparison to the MC, individuals with PD showed
significantly less SN-CEN coupling and greater DMN-CEN coupling during rest.
Disease severity, an index of striatal dysfunction, was related to reduced
functional coupling between the striatum and SN. These results demonstrate that
individuals with PD have a dysfunctional pattern of interaction between core
neurocognitive networks compared to what is found in healthy individuals, and
that interaction between the SN and the striatum is even more profoundly
disrupted in those with greater disease severity.

PMCID: PMC4320252
PMID: 25685711  [PubMed - in process]


557. Int J Microbiol. 2015;2015:376387. doi: 10.1155/2015/376387. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Edible mushrooms: improving human health and promoting quality life.

Valverde ME(1), Hernández-Pérez T(1), Paredes-López O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados (IPN), Unidad Irapuato, Km 9.6
Libramiento Norte Carretera Irapuato-León, 36821 Irapuato, GTO, Mexico.

Mushrooms have been consumed since earliest history; ancient Greeks believed that
mushrooms provided strength for warriors in battle, and the Romans perceived them
as the "Food of the Gods." For centuries, the Chinese culture has treasured
mushrooms as a health food, an "elixir of life." They have been part of the human
culture for thousands of years and have considerable interest in the most
important civilizations in history because of their sensory characteristics; they
have been recognized for their attractive culinary attributes. Nowadays,
mushrooms are popular valuable foods because they are low in calories,
carbohydrates, fat, and sodium: also, they are cholesterol-free. Besides,
mushrooms provide important nutrients, including selenium, potassium, riboflavin,
niacin, vitamin D, proteins, and fiber. All together with a long history as food 
source, mushrooms are important for their healing capacities and properties in
traditional medicine. It has reported beneficial effects for health and treatment
of some diseases. Many nutraceutical properties are described in mushrooms, such 
as prevention or treatment of Parkinson, Alzheimer, hypertension, and high risk
of stroke. They are also utilized to reduce the likelihood of cancer invasion and
metastasis due to antitumoral attributes. Mushrooms act as antibacterial, immune 
system enhancer and cholesterol lowering agents; additionally, they are important
sources of bioactive compounds. As a result of these properties, some mushroom
extracts are used to promote human health and are found as dietary supplements.

PMCID: PMC4320875
PMID: 25685150  [PubMed]


558. J Chiropr Med. 2014 Jun;13(2):116-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jcm.2014.06.002.

Chiropractic management of an 81-year-old man with Parkinson disease signs and
symptoms.

Bova J(1), Sergent A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Private Practice, Private Practice, Latham NY. (2)Assistant Professor, Faculty
Clinician, Palmer College of Chiropractic Florida, Port Orange, FL.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this case report is to describe the chiropractic
management of a patient with Parkinson disease.
CLINICAL FEATURES: An 81-year-old male with a 12-year history of Parkinson
disease sought chiropractic care. He had a stooped posture and a shuffling gait. 
He was not able to ambulate comfortably without the guidance of his walker. The
patient had a resting tremor, most notably in his right hand. Outcome measures
were documented using the Parkinson's Disease Questionaire-39 (PDQ-39) and
patient subjective reports.
INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: The patient was treated with blue-lensed glasses,
vibration stimulation therapy, spinal manipulation, and eye-movement exercises.
Within the first week of treatment, there was a reduction in symptoms,
improvement in ambulation, and tremor.
CONCLUSION: For this particular patient, the use of alternative treatment
procedures appeared to help his Parkinson disease signs and symptoms.

PMCID: PMC4322011
PMID: 25685120  [PubMed]


559. Am J Med Genet A. 2015 Mar;167A(3):639-45. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36928. Epub 2015
Feb 13.

Movement disorders and other motor abnormalities in adults with 22q11.2 deletion 
syndrome.

Boot E(1), Butcher NJ, van Amelsvoort TA, Lang AE, Marras C, Pondal M, Andrade
DM, Fung WL, Bassett AS.

Author information: 
(1)The Dalglish Family Hearts and Minds Clinic for Adults with 22q11.2 Deletion
Syndrome, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Nuclear Medicine, Academic
Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Psychiatry, University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Psychiatry, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Movement abnormalities are frequently reported in children with 22q11.2 deletion 
syndrome (22q11.2DS), but knowledge in this area is scarce in the increasing
adult population. We report on five individuals illustrative of movement
disorders and other motor abnormalities in adults with 22q11.2DS. In addition to 
an increased susceptibility to neuropsychiatric disorders, seizures, and
early-onset Parkinson disease, the underlying brain dysfunction associated with
22q11.2DS may give rise to an increased vulnerability to multiple movement
abnormalities, including those influenced by medications. Movement abnormalities 
may also be secondary to treatable endocrine diseases and congenital
musculoskeletal abnormalities. We propose that movement abnormalities may be
common in adults with 22q11.2DS and discuss the implications and challenges
important to clinical practice.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25684639  [PubMed - in process]


560. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2015;19(2):182-3.

SEMA5A in Parkinson's disease.

Sand PG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Regensburg, Germany.
philipp.sand@ukr.de.

Comment on
    Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014;18(6):900-4.

PMID: 25683927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2015 May-Jun;60(3):453-6. doi:
10.1016/j.archger.2015.01.018. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Status of treatment for dementia patients who visited hospital as the first
visit.

Chang H(1), Park H(2), Lee HS(1), Cheong J(1), Kang H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Wonkwang University School of Medicine, Institute of 
Wonkwang Medical Science, Iksan, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Neurology,
Wonkwang University School of Medicine, Institute of Wonkwang Medical Science,
Iksan, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hypppark@hanmail.net. (3)Department
of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

We are approaching a period of population ageing in which the number of dementia 
patients will increase rapidly and become a significant social problem. There are
many study guides for treatment of dementia, but there are limited numbers of
studies and limited amounts of data available for evaluating the treatment used
on dementia patients as related to their hospital for the first time. A study was
performed using information gathered from 50 domestic hospitals to ensure that
the treatment status data was representative of the actual field of clinical
dementia. We observed retrospectively the medical records of 4282 patients who
visited the hospital and were finally judged to have dementia from January, 2009 
to December, 2010. Among the types of dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) had the 
greatest occurrence at 66.57%, with vascular dementia (VD) at 17.63%, AD with CVD
at 10.18%, and Parkinson related dementia at 4.25%. The drug primarily used for
initial therapy is the same drug primarily used for patients who have undergone
long term dementia treatment, namely donepezil (75.22%). Among all 4282 patients,
there was addition or transition of drugs used for 389 of the patients.
Ineffectiveness of the initial drug treatment was the reason for the addition of 
drugs or transition to other drugs in almost all cases. In this study, the
clinical characteristics observed for dementia treatment is compared as drugs
changing, which will be helpful in the preparation of a treatment guide for
dementia in the future.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25683885  [PubMed - in process]


562. Sleep Med. 2015 Mar;16(3):419-27. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2014.10.014. Epub 2015 Jan
16.

Dreaming furiously? A sleep laboratory study on the dream content of people with 
Parkinson's disease and with or without rapid eye movement sleep behavior
disorder.

Valli K(1), Frauscher B(2), Peltomaa T(3), Gschliesser V(2), Revonsuo A(4), Högl 
B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience, Turku Brain and Mind Center, Department of 
Psychology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland; School of Bioscience, University
of Skövde, Skövde, Sweden. Electronic address: katval@utu.fi. (2)Department of
Neurology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. (3)Centre for
Cognitive Neuroscience, Turku Brain and Mind Center, Department of Psychology,
University of Turku, Turku, Finland. (4)Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience, Turku 
Brain and Mind Center, Department of Psychology, University of Turku, Turku,
Finland; School of Bioscience, University of Skövde, Skövde, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) has been
related to altered, action-filled, vivid, and aggressive dream content, but
research comparing the possible differences in dreams of Parkinson's disease (PD)
patients with and without RBD is scarce. The dream content of PD patients with
and without RBD was analyzed with specific focus on action-filledness, vividness,
emotional valence, and threats.
METHODS: A total of 69 REM and NREM dream reports were collected in the sleep
laboratory, 37 from nine PD patients with RBD and 32 from six PD patients without
RBD. A content analysis of (1) action-filledness (actions and environmental
events); (2) vividness (emotions and cognitive activity); (3) intensity of
actions, events and emotions; (4) emotional valence, and (5) threatening events
was performed on the transcripts.
RESULTS: Altogether 563 dream elements expressing action-filledness and vividness
were found. There were no significant between-group differences in the number or 
distribution of elements reflecting action-filledness or vividness, emotional
valence or threats. In within-group analyses, PD patients with RBD had
significantly more negative compared to positive dreams (p = 0.012) and compared 
to PD patients without RBD, a tendency to have more intense actions in their
dreams (p = 0.066).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this study, there are no major between-group
differences in the action-filledness, vividness, or threat content of dreams of
PD patients with and without RBD. However, within-group analyses revealed that
dreams were more often negatively than positively toned in PD patients with RBD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25683562  [PubMed - in process]


563. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Apr;36(4):1686-91. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.01.015. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Upregulation of alphaB-crystallin expression in the substantia nigra of patients 
with Parkinson's disease.

Liu Y(1), Zhou Q(1), Tang M(2), Fu N(3), Shao W(1), Zhang S(1), Yin Y(1), Zeng
R(3), Wang X(4), Hu G(5), Zhou J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, CAS Center
for Excellence in Brain Science, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. (2)Institute of Neuroscience, State
Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science,
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai, China; Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration, Department of
Pharmacology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. (3)Key
Laboratory of Systems Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology,
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai, China. (4)Center of Parkinson's Disease, Beijing Institute for Brain
Disorders, Beijing, China. (5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration,
Department of Pharmacology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. 
(6)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, CAS Center
for Excellence in Brain Science, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. Electronic address:
jwzhou@ion.ac.cn.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most devastating neurodegenerative
disorders. The underlying mechanisms of the characteristic neurodegeneration in
the substantia nigra (SN) are still not fully understood. To better understand
the molecular events occurring in the SN of PD brain, we used the culture-derived
isotope tag-based quantitative proteomics to compare the protein expression
profiles in the nigral tissue of PD patients and control subjects. We identified 
a total of 11 differentially expressed proteins, including alphaB-crystallin
(Cryab). Both the levels and pattern of Cryab expression in the SN were
validated. It was revealed that Cryab was markedly upregulated in the SN of PD
brain. Cryab expression was also upregulated in reactive astrocytes and microglia
in a neurotoxin-induced mouse PD model. Moreover, we showed increased expression 
of Cryab in cytoplasmic inclusions in a subset of glial cells in Parkinsonian
brain. Thus, we identified Cryab that is highly expressed in the SN of PD brain
and may be involved in the glial pathology during dopaminergic neuron
degeneration in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25683516  [PubMed - in process]


564. Phytother Res. 2015 May;29(5):749-56. doi: 10.1002/ptr.5311. Epub 2015 Feb 13.

Artocarpus altilis (Parkinson) Fosberg Extracts and Geranyl Dihydrochalcone
Inhibit STAT3 Activity in Prostate Cancer DU145 Cells.

Jeon YJ(1), Jung SN, Chang H, Yun J, Lee CW, Lee J, Choi S, Nash O, Han DC, Kwon 
BM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Genomics, Korea Research Institute of
Bioscience and Biotechnology, University of Science and Technology, 125 Gwahakro 
Yoosunggu, Daejeon, 305-600, Republic of Korea.

Artocarpus altilis (Parkinson) Fosberg has traditionally been used in Indonesia
for the treatment of liver cirrhosis, hypertension, and diabetes. In many other
countries, it is used for the treatment of malaria, yellow fever, and dengue
fever. It has been reported that A. altilis extracts have antiatherosclerotic and
cytoprotective effects, but its molecular targets in tumor cells are not yet
fully understood. The A. altilis extracts and the partially purified fraction
have been shown to inhibit STAT3 activity and the phosphorylation of STAT3 in a
dose-dependent manner. To identify the active components, a bioassay-guided
isolation of the partially purified fraction resulted in the identification of a 
geranyl dihydrochalcone, CG901. Its chemical structure was established on the
basis of spectroscopic evidence and comparison with published data. The partially
purified fraction and the isolated a geranyl dihydrochalcone, CG901,
down-regulated the expression of STAT3 target genes, induced apoptosis in DU145
prostate cancer cells via caspase-3 and PARP degradation, and inhibited tumor
growth in human prostate tumor (DU145) xenograft initiation model. These results 
suggest that A. altilis could be a good natural source and that the isolated
compound will be a potential lead molecule for developing novel therapeutics
against STAT3-related diseases, including cancer and inflammation. Copyright ©
2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25682949  [PubMed - in process]


565. Cortex. 2015 Apr;65:102-112. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2015.01.005. Epub 2015 Jan 24.

Sequential movement skill in Parkinson's disease: A state-of-the-art.

Ruitenberg MF(1), Duthoo W(2), Santens P(3), Notebaert W(2), Abrahamse EL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
Electronic address: marit.ruitenberg@ugent.be. (2)Department of Experimental
Psychology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. (3)Department of Neurology, Ghent
University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

The present work reviews research on the learning and skilled performance of
movement sequences in Parkinson's disease (PD). We focus specifically on the
serial reaction time (SRT) task, and start by outlining behavioral studies on PD 
patients and healthy control participants. The literature is not unequivocal:
Whereas the majority of studies indicate impaired sequencing skill in PD, still a
considerable set of studies opposes this conclusion. We identify and discuss
various determinants of sequence skill in PD that may contribute to the
inconclusiveness of the literature. One major determinant is the role of
dopaminergic medication. It has been hypothesized that while such medication
restores dopamine levels in depleted parts of the brain, it may also overdose
brain regions in which dopamine depletion is less pronounced. As sequence
learning involves the contribution of both affected and unaffected brain areas,
dopaminergic medication may enhance particular (motor-related) processes involved
in sequence learning, but hinder other (cognition-related) processes that are
still intact in PD. We discuss studies supporting this notion and finish with
some recommendations for future research: systematically consider the impact of
medication, build on models of sequence learning that include both cognitive and 
motor components, and include more elaborated motor skill to be able to better
dissociate cognitive and motor-based problems and explore their interactions.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25681652  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


566. Exp Neurol. 2015 Apr;266:11-21. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.02.005. Epub 2015
Feb 12.

Tricyclic antidepressant treatment evokes regional changes in neurotrophic
factors over time within the intact and degenerating nigrostriatal system.

Paumier KL(1), Sortwell CE(2), Madhavan L(3), Terpstra B(4), Daley BF(2), Collier
TJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Translational Science and Molecular Medicine, Michigan State
University, Grand Rapids, MI, USA. Electronic address:
Katrina.paumier@hc.msu.edu. (2)Department of Translational Science and Molecular 
Medicine, Michigan State University, Grand Rapids, MI, USA. (3)Department of
Neurology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA. (4)The Parkinson's Disease
Rehabilitation Institute, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

In addition to alleviating depression, trophic responses produced by
antidepressants may regulate neural plasticity in the diseased brain, which not
only provides symptomatic benefit but also potentially slows the rate of disease 
progression in Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent in vitro and in vivo data provide
evidence that neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) may be key
mediators of the therapeutic response to antidepressants. As such, we conducted a
cross-sectional time-course study to determine whether antidepressant-mediated
changes in neurotrophic factors occur in relevant brain regions in response to
amitriptyline (AMI) treatment before and after intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine
(6OHDA). Adult male Wistar rats were divided into seven cohorts and given daily
injections (i.p.) of AMI (5mg/kg) or saline throughout the duration of the study.
In parallel, various cohorts of intact or parkinsonian animals were sacrificed at
specific time points to determine the impact of AMI treatment on trophic factor
levels in the intact and degenerating nigrostriatal system. The left and right
hemispheres of the substantia nigra, striatum, frontal cortex, piriform cortex,
hippocampus, and anterior cingulate cortex were dissected, and BDNF and GDNF
levels were measured with ELISA. Results show that chronic AMI treatment elicits 
effects in multiple brain regions and differentially regulates levels of BDNF and
GDNF depending on the region. Additionally, AMI halts the progressive
degeneration of dopamine (DA) neurons elicited by an intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesion.
Taken together, these results suggest that AMI treatment elicits significant
trophic changes important to DA neuron survival within both the intact and
degenerating nigrostriatal system.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4382385 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25681575  [PubMed - in process]


567. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 May;77:165-72. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.01.007. Epub 2015 Feb 
12.

Monoaminergic PET imaging and histopathological correlation in unilateral and
bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rat models of Parkinson's disease: A
longitudinal in-vivo study.

Molinet-Dronda F(1), Gago B(2), Quiroga-Varela A(2), Juri C(3), Collantes M(4),
Delgado M(5), Prieto E(6), Ecay M(7), Iglesias E(2), Marín C(8), Peñuelas I(4),
Obeso JA(9).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Laboratory, Neurosciences Area, CIMA, University of
Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain; MicroPET Research
Unit, CIMA, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (2)Movement Disorders
Laboratory, Neurosciences Area, CIMA, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain;
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. (3)Movement Disorders Laboratory, Neurosciences Area, 
CIMA, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; Department of Neurology, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile. (4)MicroPET Research Unit, CIMA, 
University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; Department of Nuclear Medicine, Clínica
Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (5)Brain Mapping Unit, Multidisciplinary
Institute, Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain. (6)Department of
Nuclear Medicine, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (7)MicroPET
Research Unit, CIMA, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (8)Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Madrid, Spain; INGENIO, IRCE, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain. (9)Movement Disorders Laboratory,
Neurosciences Area, CIMA, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: jobeso.hmcinac@hospitalesdemadrid.com.

Carbon-11 labeled dihydrotetrabenazine ((11)C-DTBZ) binds to the vesicular
monoamine transporter 2 and has been used to assess nigro-striatal integrity in
animal models and patients with Parkinson's disease. Here, we applied (11)C-DTBZ 
positron emission tomography (PET) to obtain longitudinally in-vivo assessment of
striatal dopaminergic loss in the classic unilateral and in a novel bilateral
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion rat model. Forty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were 
divided into 3 sub-groups: 1. 6-OHDA-induced unilateral lesion in the medial
forebrain bundle, 2. bilateral lesion by injection of 6-OHDA in the third
ventricle, and 3. vehicle injection in either site. (11)C-DTBZ PET studies were
investigated in the same animals successively at baseline, 1, 3 and 6weeks after 
lesion using an anatomically standardized volumes-of-interest approach.
Additionally, 12 rats had PET and Magnetic Resonance Imaging to construct a new
(11)C-DTBZ PET template. Behavior was characterized by rotational, catalepsy and 
limb-use asymmetry tests and dopaminergic striatal denervation was validated
post-mortem by immunostaining of the dopamine transporter (DAT). (11)C-DTBZ PET
showed a significant decrease of striatal binding (SB) values one week after the 
unilateral lesion. At this point, there was a 60% reduction in SB in the affected
hemisphere compared with baseline values in 6-OHDA unilaterally lesioned animals.
A 46% symmetric reduction over baseline SB values was found in bilaterally
lesioned rats at the first week after lesion. SB values remained constant in
unilaterally lesioned rats whereas animals with bilateral lesions showed a modest
(22%) increase in binding values at the 3rd and 6th weeks post-lesion. The degree
of striatal dopaminergic denervation was corroborated histologically by DAT
immunostaining. Statistical analysis revealed a high correlation between
(11)C-DTBZ PET SB and striatal DAT immunostaining values (r=0.95, p<0.001). The
data presented here indicate that (11)C-DTBZ PET may be used to ascertain changes
occurring in-vivo throughout the evolution of nigro-striatal dopaminergic
neurodegeneration, mainly in the unilateral 6-OHDA lesion rat.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25681534  [PubMed - in process]


568. Life Sci. 2015 Mar 15;125:71-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2015.01.022. Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Disturbance of sensorimotor filtering in the 6-OHDA rodent model of Parkinson's
disease.

Issy AC(1), Padovan-Neto FE(2), Lazzarini M(3), Bortolanza M(1), Del-Bel E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Physiology and Basic Pathology, School of Odontology
of Ribeirao Preto, University of Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; Center
for Interdisciplinary Research on Applied Neurosciences (NAPNA), Ribeirao Preto, 
SP, Brazil. (2)Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Applied Neurosciences
(NAPNA), Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; Department of Neuroscience and Behavior,
University of Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Medical School, Ribeirao Preto, SP,
Brazil. (3)Department of Morphology, Physiology and Basic Pathology, School of
Odontology of Ribeirao Preto, University of Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto, SP,
Brazil; Department of Neuroscience and Behavior, University of Sao Paulo,
Ribeirao Preto Medical School, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil. (4)Department of
Morphology, Physiology and Basic Pathology, School of Odontology of Ribeirao
Preto, University of Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; Center for
Interdisciplinary Research on Applied Neurosciences (NAPNA), Ribeirao Preto, SP, 
Brazil; Department of Neuroscience and Behavior, University of Sao Paulo,
Ribeirao Preto Medical School, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic address:
eadelbel@forp.usp.br.

PMID: 25681528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Neurology. 2015 Mar 17;84(11):1104-13. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001364. Epub
2015 Feb 13.

Parkinson risk in idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder: preparing for
neuroprotective trials.

Postuma RB(1), Gagnon JF(1), Bertrand JA(1), Génier Marchand D(1), Montplaisir
JY(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (R.B.P.), McGill University, Montreal General
Hospital; Centre d'Études Avancées en Médecine du Sommeil (R.B.P., J.-F.G.,
J.-A.B., D.G.M., J.Y.M.), Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal; Department of
Psychology (J.-F.G.), Université du Québec à Montréal; and Department of
Psychiatry (J.Y.M.), Université de Montréal, Canada. (2)From the Department of
Neurology (R.B.P.), McGill University, Montreal General Hospital; Centre d'Études
Avancées en Médecine du Sommeil (R.B.P., J.-F.G., J.-A.B., D.G.M., J.Y.M.),
Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal; Department of Psychology (J.-F.G.), Université
du Québec à Montréal; and Department of Psychiatry (J.Y.M.), Université de
Montréal, Canada. jy.montplaisir@umontreal.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To precisely delineate clinical risk factors for conversion from
idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) to Parkinson disease, dementia with 
Lewy bodies, and multiple system atrophy, in order to enable practical planning
and stratification of neuroprotective trials against neurodegenerative
synucleinopathy.
METHODS: In a 10-year prospective cohort, we tested prodromal Parkinson disease
markers in 89 patients with idiopathic RBD. With Kaplan-Meier analysis, we
calculated risk of neurodegenerative synucleinopathy, and using Cox proportional 
hazards, tested the ability of prodromal markers to identify patients at higher
disease risk. By combining predictive markers, we then designed stratification
strategies to optimally select patients for definitive neuroprotective trials.
RESULTS: The risk of defined neurodegenerative synucleinopathy was high: 30%
developed disease at 3 years, rising to 66% at 7.5 years. Advanced age (hazard
ratio [HR] = 1.07), olfactory loss (HR = 2.8), abnormal color vision (HR = 3.1), 
subtle motor dysfunction (HR = 3.9), and nonuse of antidepressants (HR = 3.5)
identified higher risk of disease conversion. However, mild cognitive impairment 
(HR = 1.8), depression (HR = 0.63), Parkinson personality, treatment with
clonazepam (HR = 1.3) or melatonin (HR = 0.55), autonomic markers, and sex (HR = 
1.37) did not clearly predict clinical neurodegeneration. Stratification with
prodromal markers increased risk of neurodegenerative disease conversion by 200%,
and combining markers allowed sample size reduction in neuroprotective trials by 
>40%. With a moderately effective agent (HR = 0.5), trials with fewer than 80
subjects per group can demonstrate definitive reductions in neurodegenerative
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Using stratification with simply assessed markers, it is now not
only possible, but practical to include patients with RBD in neuroprotective
trials against Parkinson disease, multiple system atrophy, and dementia with Lewy
bodies.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4371408 [Available on 2015-09-17]
PMID: 25681454  [PubMed - in process]


570. Neurology. 2015 Mar 17;84(11):1098-103. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001362. Epub
2015 Feb 13.

Head injury and risk for Parkinson disease: results from a Danish case-control
study.

Kenborg L(1), Rugbjerg K(2), Lee PC(2), Ravnskjær L(2), Christensen J(2), Ritz
B(2), Lassen CF(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Danish Cancer Society Research Center (L.K., K.R., L.R., J.C.,
C.F.L.), Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen, Denmark; the Department of
Epidemiology, Fielding School of Public Health (P.-C.L., B.R.), and the
Department of Neurology, School of Medicine (B.R.), University of California, Los
Angeles; the Department of Health Care Management (P.-C.L.), College of
Healthcare Administration and Management, National Taipei University of Nursing
Health Sciences, Taipei, Taiwan; and the Department of Occupational and
Environmental Medicine (C.F.L.), Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
kenborg@cancer.dk. (2)From the Danish Cancer Society Research Center (L.K., K.R.,
L.R., J.C., C.F.L.), Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen, Denmark; the Department
of Epidemiology, Fielding School of Public Health (P.-C.L., B.R.), and the
Department of Neurology, School of Medicine (B.R.), University of California, Los
Angeles; the Department of Health Care Management (P.-C.L.), College of
Healthcare Administration and Management, National Taipei University of Nursing
Health Sciences, Taipei, Taiwan; and the Department of Occupational and
Environmental Medicine (C.F.L.), Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between head injuries throughout life and
the risk for Parkinson disease (PD) in an interview-based case-control study.
METHODS: We identified 1,705 patients diagnosed with PD at 10 neurologic centers 
in Denmark in 1996-2009 and verified their diagnoses in medical records. Patients
were matched to 1,785 controls randomly selected from the Danish Central
Population Register on sex and year of birth. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using unconditional logistic
regression.
RESULTS: We observed no association between any head injury before first cardinal
symptom and PD (OR 1.02; 95% CI 0.88, 1.19). Examination of number of head
injuries (1: OR 1.02; 95% CI 0.87, 1.20; ≥2: OR 1.03; 95% CI 0.72, 1.47) or
hospitalization for a head injury (OR 0.89; 95% CI 0.70, 1.12) did not show an
association with PD. For 954 study subjects with at least one head injury, there 
was no evidence of an association between loss of consciousness (OR 0.89; 95% CI 
0.67, 1.17), duration of loss of consciousness (≤1 minute: OR 0.93; 95% CI 0.58, 
1.49; 1-5 minutes: OR 0.74; 95% CI 0.51, 1.08; ≥5 minutes: OR 0.81; 95% CI 0.53, 
1.24), or amnesia (OR 1.31; 95% CI 0.88, 1.95) and risk for PD. Application of a 
lag time of 10 years between head injury and first cardinal symptom resulted in
similar risk estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: The results do not support the hypothesis that head injury increases
the risk for PD.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4371406 [Available on 2016-03-17]
PMID: 25681453  [PubMed - in process]


571. J Chem Neuroanat. 2015 Mar-Apr;64-65C:20-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2015.02.001.
Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Using Sepia melanin as a PD model to describe the binding characteristics of
neuromelanin - A critical review.

Schroeder RL(1), Double KL(2), Gerber JP(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy and Medical Sciences, University of South Australia, North 
Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia. (2)Neuroscience Research Australia
(NeuRA), PO Box 1165, Randwick, NSW 2031, Australia; School of Medical Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; 
Discipline of Biomedical Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, Sydney Medical
School, The University of Sydney, Cumberland Campus C42, 75 East Street,
Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia. (3)School of Pharmacy and Medical Sciences,
University of South Australia, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia.
Electronic address: Cobus.Gerber@unisa.edu.au.

Parkinson's disease is characterised pathologically by a relatively selective
death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the brain. The
vulnerability of these neurons appears to be linked to the pigment neuromelanin. 
However, as yet there is limited understanding behind the mechanisms of this
disease process. Complications arise due to the difficulty in obtaining
appreciable quantities of neuromelanin. Furthermore, an appropriate model for
studying neuromelanin has not been identified. To date there has been many
studies looking at the binding and chemical characteristics of neuromelanin.
However, a range of different synthetic and organic melanins have been used as
models and leading to many varied conclusions being drawn. Therefore, the aim of 
this review is to present Sepia melanin as the most appropriate study model for
the binding characteristics of neuromelanin. Considerations included chemical
structure, surface characteristics and structural features of both synthetic and 
organic melanins.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25681296  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


572. Eur J Cell Biol. 2015 Mar-Apr;94(3-4):148-61. doi: 10.1016/j.ejcb.2015.01.003.
Epub 2015 Jan 30.

Loss of lysosome-associated membrane protein 3 (LAMP3) enhances cellular
vulnerability against proteasomal inhibition.

Dominguez-Bautista JA(1), Klinkenberg M(1), Brehm N(1), Subramaniam M(2), Kern
B(2), Roeper J(2), Auburger G(1), Jendrach M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Neurology, Department of Neurology, Goethe University Medical
School, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. (2)Institute of Neurophysiology, Goethe
University Medical School, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. (3)Experimental Neurology,
Department of Neurology, Goethe University Medical School, Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. Electronic address: marina.jendrach@charite.de.

The family of lysosome-associated membrane proteins (LAMP) includes the
ubiquitously expressed LAMP1 and LAMP2, which account for half of the proteins in
the lysosomal membrane. Another member of the LAMP family is LAMP3, which is
expressed only in certain cell types and differentiation stages. LAMP3 expression
is linked with poor prognosis of certain cancers, and the locus where it is
encoded was identified as a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we
investigated the role of LAMP3 in the two main cellular degradation pathways, the
proteasome and autophagy. LAMP3 mRNA was not detected in mouse models of PD or in
the brain of human patients. However, it was strongly induced upon proteasomal
inhibition in the neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. Induction of LAMP3 mRNA
following proteasomal inhibition was dependent on UPR transcription factor ATF4
signaling and induced autophagic flux. Prevention of LAMP3 induction enhanced
apoptotic cell death. In summary, these data demonstrate that LAMP3 regulation as
part of the UPR contributes to protein degradation and cell survival during
proteasomal dysfunction. This link between autophagy and the proteasome may be of
special importance for the treatment of tumor cells with proteasomal inhibitors.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25681212  [PubMed - in process]


573. J Electrocardiol. 2015 May-Jun;48(3):298-310. doi:
10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2014.12.018. Epub 2015 Jan 3.

Stages of psychological impact after diagnosis with serious or potentially lethal
cardiac disease in young competitive athletes: A new model.

Asif IM(1), Price D(2), Fisher LA(3), Zakrajsek RA(3), Larsen LK(3), Raabe JJ(3),
Bejar MP(3), Rao AL(4), Harmon KG(4), Drezner JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Greenville Health System, University of South
Carolina Greenville School of Medicine, Greenville, SC, USA. Electronic address: 
iasif@sc.edu. (2)Department of Family Medicine, Carolinas Medicine Center,
Charlotte, NC, USA. (3)Department of Kinesiology, Recreation, and Sport Studies, 
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, USA. (4)Department of Family Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

IMPORTANCE: Sudden cardiac death (SCD) in sports is a tragic event.
Pre-participation cardiovascular screening is required before participation in
high school and college athletic programs and is universally endorsed by major
medical societies. The medical impact of a diagnosis may be life-saving; however,
the detection of disease should not be the sole endpoint of care. Physicians have
an obligation to attend to both the medical and psychological well-being of their
patients.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the psychological impact of being diagnosed with cardiac 
disease in young competitive athletes.
DESIGN: Athletes diagnosed with cardiac conditions were recruited to participate 
in a semi-structured interview, which was analyzed by sport psychology experts
using qualitative research. Individuals shared reactions and experiences
regarding diagnosis, lifestyle implications, coping strategies, major concerns,
and overall impact on psychosocial functioning.
SETTING: Young competitive athletes from across the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: 25 athletes (52% male, 80% Caucasian, median age 17.7)
participated. Diagnoses included: 5 hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, 8 Wolff
Parkinson White, 4 long QT syndrome, 3 atrial septal defect, 2 supraventricular
tachycardia, and 3 other.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Interviews were analyzed using consensual qualitative
research (CQR) to identify domains, categories, and core ideas.
RESULTS: Athletes progressed through 4 stages of psychological impact including: 
1) immediate reactions and challenge to athlete identity, 2) grief/coping, 3)
adaptation, and 4) acceptance. Risk factors for increased psychological morbidity
included: higher level of competition, permanent disqualification from sports,
persistent reminders (e.g. daily medication, monitoring heart rate during
activity), and unanticipated outcomes (e.g. failed procedures). Those undergoing 
simple corrective procedures came to terms with their diagnosis quickly with
little impact on daily life. Few athletes described emotional support mechanisms 
provided by medical programs. Diagnosis often led to new goals such as mentoring 
or coaching. All athletes diagnosed through advanced cardiovascular screening
stated they would repeat the process.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Athletes diagnosed with cardiac disease represent an
emotionally vulnerable population and experience 4 stages of psychological
adjustment not previously described. This proposed model of psychological impact 
should be used to develop improved support mechanisms, awareness, and education
to assist athletes diagnosed with serious or potentially lethal cardiac disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25680944  [PubMed - in process]


574. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Apr 3;459(2):196-200. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.02.008. Epub 2015 Feb 11.

UNC-51-like kinase 1 blocks S6k1 phosphorylation contributes to neurodegeneration
in Parkinson's disease model in vitro.

Li Y(1), Zhang J(2), Yang C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Tianjin Medical University, 22 Qixiangtai Road, Tianjin
300070, China. Electronic address: yongle_li@126.com. (2)Department of Nerve
Internal Medicine, Jingmen No.2 People's Hospital, Xiangshan Road, Jingmen
448000, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study was aim to determine the role and underling mechanism of
ribosomal protein S6 kinases 1 (S6k1) phosphorylation in Parkinson's disease
(PD).
METHODS: The dopaminergic neuron MN9D was employed and 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridium 
(MPP) iodide (MPP(+)) was used to generate PD model in vitro. The S6k1
phosphorylation and UNC-51-like kinase 1 (ULK1) protein levels were analyzed by
western blot. The ULK1 mRNA level was evaluated by Real-time RT-PCR. The S6k1
threonine 389 (T389) site-directed mutagenesis, the phosphodeficit T389A
(threonine to alanine) and the phosphomimetic T389D (threonine to aspartate) were
generated to examine the phosphorylation site of S6k1.
RESULTS: An increase in the ULK1 mRNA and protein levels were detected in the
MPP(+)-treated MN9D cells compared to control. ULK1 knockdown increased neuronal 
cell viability, and enhanced S6k1 phosphorylation. Further investigation
demonstrated ULK1 knockdown promoted the S6k1 T389 phosphorylation in particular.
T389A enhanced the viability of MPP iodide-treated MN9D, whereas T389D decreased 
the cell viability.
CONCLUSION: ULK1 acts to inhibit S6k1 phosphorylation at T389, leading to MN9D
viability reduction under MPP(+) treatment. These results provide evidence for a 
novel mechanism by which the ULK1 inhibit S6k1 T389 phosphorylation contributes
to neurodegeneration in MPP(+) treated-MN9D, and suggests a new therapeutic
strategy for PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25680463  [PubMed - in process]


575. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Jun;93:209-18. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.01.030.
Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Neuroprotective effects of 5-(4-hydroxy-3-dimethoxybenzylidene)-thiazolidinone in
MPTP induced Parkinsonism model in mice.

Ren Z(1), Yang N(1), Ji C(1), Zheng J(1), Wang T(1), Liu Y(2), Zuo P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Center of
Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences &School of Basic Medicine,
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100005, China. (2)Department of
Pharmacology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Center of Neuroscience,
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences &School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union
Medical College, Beijing, 100005, China. Electronic address: liuyanyong@126.com. 
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Center of
Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences &School of Basic Medicine,
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100005, China. Electronic address:
pingping_zuo@126.com.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder characterized by degeneration
of nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DAergic) system. Present treatment targeting to
DAergic system solely ameliorated the symptoms but failed to retard the DAergic
neuron degeneration, therefore new therapeutic methods aiming at preventing or
delaying the neurodegenerative process are urgently needed. In the present study,
we found that 5-(4-hydroxy-3-dimethoxybenzylidene)-2-thioxo-4-thiazolidinone
(RD-1), a compound derived from rhodanine, protected DAergicneurons from
neurotoxicity of MPTP/MPP(+). Firstly, RD-1 significantly improved the locomotor 
ability in the MPTP mice model, and elevated the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)
positive cell numbers in substantianigra pars compacta (SNpc) and the integrated 
optical density (IOD) of TH-positive nerve fibers in striatum respectively. Since
mitochondrial dysfunction plays an important role in pathogenesis of PD, thereby 
we investigated the molecular mechanisms of RD-1 against MPTP/MPP(+)
neurotoxicity, focusing on its effects on the mitochondrial dysfunction.
Immunoblotting analysis showed that RD-1 significantly elevated the Parkin and
Miro2 expression levels in acute MPTP treated mice, and improved mitochondrial
membrane potential and ATP synthesis in MPP(+)-treated Neuro-2a cells. Moreover, 
RD-1attenuated impaired mitochondrial transport and vesicle release dysfunction
evoked by MPP(+) cytotoxicity in cultured primary mesencephalic neurons. Taken
together, these results indicate that improving the mitochondrial dysfunction may
be a good choice to delay the neurodegenerative progression commonly associated
with PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25680233  [PubMed - in process]


576. Phys Rev Lett. 2015 Jan 30;114(4):041801. Epub 2015 Jan 30.

Precision measurement of CP violation in B(S)(0)→J/ΨK+K- decays.

Aaij R, Adeva B, Adinolfi M, Affolder A, Ajaltouni Z, Akar S, Albrecht J, Alessio
F, Alexander M, Ali S, Alkhazov G, Alvarez Cartelle P, Alves AA Jr, Amato S,
Amerio S, Amhis Y, An L, Anderlini L, Anderson J, Andreassen R, Andreotti M,
Andrews JE, Appleby RB, Aquines Gutierrez O, Archilli F, Artamonov A, Artuso M,
Aslanides E, Auriemma G, Baalouch M, Bachmann S, Back JJ, Badalov A, Baesso C,
Baldini W, Barlow RJ, Barschel C, Barsuk S, Barter W, Batozskaya V, Battista V,
Bay A, Beaucourt L, Beddow J, Bedeschi F, Bediaga I, Belogurov S, Belous K,
Belyaev I, Ben-Haim E, Bencivenni G, Benson S, Benton J, Berezhnoy A, Bernet R,
Bertolin A, Bettler MO, van Beuzekom M, Bien A, Bifani S, Bird T, Bizzeti A,
Bjørnstad PM, Blake T, Blanc F, Blouw J, Blusk S, Bocci V, Bondar A, Bondar N,
Bonivento W, Borghi S, Borgia A, Borsato M, Bowcock TJ, Bowen E, Bozzi C, Brett
D, Britsch M, Britton T, Brodzicka J, Brook NH, Bursche A, Buytaert J, Cadeddu S,
Calabrese R, Calvi M, Calvo Gomez M, Campana P, Campora Perez D, Carbone A,
Carboni G, Cardinale R, Cardini A, Carson L, Carvalho Akiba K, Casanova Mohr RC, 
Casse G, Cassina L, Castillo Garcia L, Cattaneo M, Cauet Ch, Cenci R, Charles M, 
Charpentier P, Chefdeville M, Chen S, Cheung SF, Chiapolini N, Chrzaszcz M, Cid
Vidal X, Ciezarek G, Clarke PE, Clemencic M, Cliff HV, Closier J, Coco V, Cogan
J, Cogneras E, Cogoni V, Cojocariu L, Collazuol G, Collins P, Comerma-Montells A,
Contu A, Cook A, Coombes M, Coquereau S, Corti G, Corvo M, Counts I, Couturier B,
Cowan GA, Craik DC, Crocombe AC, Cruz Torres M, Cunliffe S, Currie R, D'Ambrosio 
C, Dalseno J, David P, David PN, Davis A, De Bruyn K, De Capua S, De Cian M, De
Miranda JM, De Paula L, De Silva W, De Simone P, Dean CT, Decamp D, Deckenhoff M,
Del Buono L, Déléage N, Derkach D, Deschamps O, Dettori F, Di Canto A, Di
Domenico A, Dijkstra H, Donleavy S, Dordei F, Dorigo M, Dosil Suárez A, Dossett
D, Dovbnya A, Dreimanis K, Dujany G, Dupertuis F, Durante P, Dzhelyadin R,
Dziurda A, Dzyuba A, Easo S, Egede U, Egorychev V, Eidelman S, Eisenhardt S,
Eitschberger U, Ekelhof R, Eklund L, El Rifai I, Elsasser Ch, Ely S, Esen S,
Evans HM, Evans T, Falabella A, Färber C, Farinelli C, Farley N, Farry S, Fay R, 
Ferguson D, Fernandez Albor V, Ferreira Rodrigues F, Ferro-Luzzi M, Filippov S,
Fiore M, Fiorini M, Firlej M, Fitzpatrick C, Fiutowski T, Fol P, Fontana M,
Fontanelli F, Forty R, Francisco O, Frank M, Frei C, Frosini M, Fu J, Furfaro E, 
Gallas Torreira A, Galli D, Gallorini S, Gambetta S, Gandelman M, Gandini P, Gao 
Y, García Pardiñas J, Garofoli J, Garra Tico J, Garrido L, Gascon D, Gaspar C,
Gastaldi U, Gauld R, Gavardi L, Gazzoni G, Geraci A, Gersabeck E, Gersabeck M,
Gershon T, Ghez P, Gianelle A, Gianì S, Gibson V, Giubega L, Gligorov VV, Göbel
C, Golubkov D, Golutvin A, Gomes A, Gotti C, Grabalosa Gándara M, Graciani Diaz
R, Granado Cardoso LA, Graugés E, Graverini E, Graziani G, Grecu A, Greening E,
Gregson S, Griffith P, Grillo L, Grünberg O, Gui B, Gushchin E, Guz Y, Gys T,
Hadjivasiliou C, Haefeli G, Haen C, Haines SC, Hall S, Hamilton B, Hampson T, Han
X, Hansmann-Menzemer S, Harnew N, Harnew ST, Harrison J, He J, Head T, Heijne V, 
Hennessy K, Henrard P, Henry L, Hernando Morata JA, van Herwijnen E, Heß M,
Hicheur A, Hill D, Hoballah M, Hombach C, Hulsbergen W, Hussain N, Hutchcroft D, 
Hynds D, Idzik M, Ilten P, Jacobsson R, Jaeger A, Jalocha J, Jans E, Jaton P,
Jawahery A, Jing F, John M, Johnson D, Jones CR, Joram C, Jost B, Jurik N,
Kandybei S, Kanso W, Karacson M, Karbach TM, Karodia S, Kelsey M, Kenyon IR,
Ketel T, Khanji B, Khurewathanakul C, Klaver S, Klimaszewski K, Kochebina O,
Kolpin M, Komarov I, Koopman RF, Koppenburg P, Korolev M, Kravchuk L, Kreplin K, 
Kreps M, Krocker G, Krokovny P, Kruse F, Kucewicz W, Kucharczyk M, Kudryavtsev V,
Kurek K, Kvaratskheliya T, La Thi VN, Lacarrere D, Lafferty G, Lai A, Lambert D, 
Lambert RW, Lanfranchi G, Langenbruch C, Langhans B, Latham T, Lazzeroni C, Le
Gac R, van Leerdam J, Lees JP, Lefèvre R, Leflat A, Lefrançois J, Leroy O, Lesiak
T, Leverington B, Li Y, Likhomanenko T, Liles M, Lindner R, Linn C, Lionetto F,
Liu B, Lohn S, Longstaff I, Lopes JH, Lowdon P, Lucchesi D, Luo H, Lupato A,
Luppi E, Lupton O, Machefert F, Machikhiliyan IV, Maciuc F, Maev O, Malde S,
Malinin A, Manca G, Mancinelli G, Mapelli A, Maratas J, Marchand JF, Marconi U,
Marin Benito C, Marino P, Märki R, Marks J, Martellotti G, Martinelli M, Martinez
Santos D, Martinez Vidal F, Martins Tostes D, Massafferri A, Matev R, Mathe Z,
Matteuzzi C, Mazurov A, McCann M, McCarthy J, McNab A, McNulty R, McSkelly B,
Meadows B, Meier F, Meissner M, Merk M, Milanes DA, Minard MN, Moggi N, Molina
Rodriguez J, Monteil S, Morandin M, Morawski P, Mordà A, Morello MJ, Moron J,
Morris AB, Mountain R, Muheim F, Müller K, Mussini M, Muster B, Naik P, Nakada T,
Nandakumar R, Nasteva I, Needham M, Neri N, Neubert S, Neufeld N, Neuner M,
Nguyen AD, Nguyen TD, Nguyen-Mau C, Nicol M, Niess V, Niet R, Nikitin N, Nikodem 
T, Novoselov A, O'Hanlon DP, Oblakowska-Mucha A, Obraztsov V, Ogilvy S,
Okhrimenko O, Oldeman R, Onderwater CJ, Orlandea M, Otalora Goicochea JM, Otto A,
Owen P, Oyanguren A, Pal BK, Palano A, Palombo F, Palutan M, Panman J, Papanestis
A, Pappagallo M, Pappalardo LL, Parkes C, Parkinson CJ, Passaleva G, Patel GD,
Patel M, Patrignani C, Pearce A, Pellegrino A, Penso G, Pepe Altarelli M,
Perazzini S, Perret P, Pescatore L, Pesen E, Petridis K, Petrolini A, Picatoste
Olloqui E, Pietrzyk B, Pilař T, Pinci D, Pistone A, Playfer S, Plo Casasus M,
Polci F, Poluektov A, Polyakov I, Polycarpo E, Popov A, Popov D, Popovici B,
Potterat C, Price E, Price JD, Prisciandaro J, Pritchard A, Prouve C, Pugatch V, 
Puig Navarro A, Punzi G, Qian W, Rachwal B, Rademacker JH, Rakotomiaramanana B,
Rama M, Rangel MS, Raniuk I, Rauschmayr N, Raven G, Redi F, Reichert S, Reid MM, 
dos Reis AC, Ricciardi S, Richards S, Rihl M, Rinnert K, Rives Molina V, Robbe P,
Rodrigues AB, Rodrigues E, Rodriguez Perez P, Roiser S, Romanovsky V, Romero
Vidal A, Rotondo M, Rouvinet J, Ruf T, Ruiz H, Ruiz Valls P, Saborido Silva JJ,
Sagidova N, Sail P, Saitta B, Salustino Guimaraes V, Sanchez Mayordomo C,
Sanmartin Sedes B, Santacesaria R, Santamarina Rios C, Santovetti E, Sarti A,
Satriano C, Satta A, Saunders DM, Savrina D, Schiller M, Schindler H, Schlupp M, 
Schmelling M, Schmidt B, Schneider O, Schopper A, Schune MH, Schwemmer R,
Sciascia B, Sciubba A, Semennikov A, Sepp I, Serra N, Serrano J, Sestini L,
Seyfert P, Shapkin M, Shapoval I, Shcheglov Y, Shears T, Shekhtman L, Shevchenko 
V, Shires A, Silva Coutinho R, Simi G, Sirendi M, Skidmore N, Skillicorn I,
Skwarnicki T, Smith NA, Smith E, Smith E, Smith J, Smith M, Snoek H, Sokoloff MD,
Soler FJ, Soomro F, Souza D, Souza De Paula B, Spaan B, Spradlin P, Sridharan S, 
Stagni F, Stahl M, Stahl S, Steinkamp O, Stenyakin O, Sterpka F, Stevenson S,
Stoica S, Stone S, Storaci B, Stracka S, Straticiuc M, Straumann U, Stroili R,
Sun L, Sutcliffe W, Swientek K, Swientek S, Syropoulos V, Szczekowski M, Szczypka
P, Szumlak T, T'Jampens S, Teklishyn M, Tellarini G, Teubert F, Thomas C, Thomas 
E, van Tilburg J, Tisserand V, Tobin M, Todd J, Tolk S, Tomassetti L, Tonelli D, 
Topp-Joergensen S, Torr N, Tournefier E, Tourneur S, Tran MT, Tresch M, Trisovic 
A, Tsaregorodtsev A, Tsopelas P, Tuning N, Ubeda Garcia M, Ukleja A, Ustyuzhanin 
A, Uwer U, Vacca C, Vagnoni V, Valenti G, Vallier A, Vazquez Gomez R, Vazquez
Regueiro P, Vázquez Sierra C, Vecchi S, Velthuis JJ, Veltri M, Veneziano G,
Vesterinen M, Viana Barbosa JV, Viaud B, Vieira D, Vieites Diaz M,
Vilasis-Cardona X, Vollhardt A, Volyanskyy D, Voong D, Vorobyev A, Vorobyev V,
Voß C, de Vries JA, Waldi R, Wallace C, Wallace R, Walsh J, Wandernoth S, Wang J,
Ward DR, Watson NK, Websdale D, Whitehead M, Wiedner D, Wilkinson G, Wilkinson M,
Williams MP, Williams M, Wilschut HW, Wilson FF, Wimberley J, Wishahi J, Wislicki
W, Witek M, Wormser G, Wotton SA, Wright S, Wyllie K, Xie Y, Xing Z, Xu Z, Yang
Z, Yuan X, Yushchenko O, Zangoli M, Zavertyaev M, Zhang L, Zhang WC, Zhang Y,
Zhelezov A, Zhokhov A, Zhong L; LHCb Collaboration.

The time-dependent CP asymmetry in B(s)(0)→J/ψK+K- decays is measured using pp
collision data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.0  fb-1, collected
with the LHCb detector at center-of-mass energies of 7 and 8 TeV. In a sample of 
96,000 B(s)(0)→J/ψK+K- decays, the CP-violating phase ϕs is measured, as well as 
the decay widths ΓL and ΓH of the light and heavy mass eigenstates of the
B(s)(0)-B[over ¯]s0 system. The values obtained are ϕs=-0.058±0.049±0.006  rad,
Γs≡(ΓL+ΓH)/2=0.6603±0.0027±0.0015  ps-1, and
ΔΓs≡ΓL-ΓH=0.0805±0.0091±0.0032  ps-1, where the first uncertainty is statistical 
and the second, systematic. These are the most precise single measurements of
those quantities to date. A combined analysis with Bs0→J/ψπ+π- decays gives
ϕs=-0.010±0.039  rad. All measurements are in agreement with the standard model
predictions. For the first time, the phase ϕs is measured independently for each 
polarization state of the K+K- system and shows no evidence for polarization
dependence.

PMID: 25679885  [PubMed - in process]


577. Phys Rev Lett. 2015 Jan 30;114(4):041601. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

Measurement of the semileptonic CP asymmetry in B0-B[over ¯]0 mixing.

Aaij R, Adeva B, Adinolfi M, Affolder A, Ajaltouni Z, Akar S, Albrecht J, Alessio
F, Alexander M, Ali S, Alkhazov G, Alvarez Cartelle P, Alves AA Jr, Amato S,
Amerio S, Amhis Y, An L, Anderlini L, Anderson J, Andreassen R, Andreotti M,
Andrews JE, Appleby RB, Aquines Gutierrez O, Archilli F, Artamonov A, Artuso M,
Aslanides E, Auriemma G, Baalouch M, Bachmann S, Back JJ, Badalov A, Baesso C,
Baldini W, Barlow RJ, Barschel C, Barsuk S, Barter W, Batozskaya V, Battista V,
Bay A, Beaucourt L, Beddow J, Bedeschi F, Bediaga I, Belogurov S, Belous K,
Belyaev I, Ben-Haim E, Bencivenni G, Benson S, Benton J, Berezhnoy A, Bernet R,
Bettler MO, van Beuzekom M, Bien A, Bifani S, Bird T, Bizzeti A, Bjørnstad PM,
Blake T, Blanc F, Blouw J, Blusk S, Bocci V, Bondar A, Bondar N, Bonivento W,
Borghi S, Borgia A, Borsato M, Bowcock TJ, Bowen E, Bozzi C, Brambach T, Brett D,
Britsch M, Britton T, Brodzicka J, Brook NH, Brown H, Bursche A, Buytaert J,
Cadeddu S, Calabrese R, Calvi M, Calvo Gomez M, Campana P, Campora Perez D,
Carbone A, Carboni G, Cardinale R, Cardini A, Carson L, Carvalho Akiba K, Casse
G, Cassina L, Castillo Garcia L, Cattaneo M, Cauet Ch, Cenci R, Charles M,
Charpentier P, Chefdeville M, Chen S, Cheung SF, Chiapolini N, Chrzaszcz M, Cid
Vidal X, Ciezarek G, Clarke PE, Clemencic M, Cliff HV, Closier J, Coco V, Cogan
J, Cogneras E, Cogoni V, Cojocariu L, Collazuol G, Collins P, Comerma-Montells A,
Contu A, Cook A, Coombes M, Coquereau S, Corti G, Corvo M, Counts I, Couturier B,
Cowan GA, Craik DC, Cruz Torres M, Cunliffe S, Currie R, D'Ambrosio C, Dalseno J,
David P, David PN, Davis A, De Bruyn K, De Capua S, De Cian M, De Miranda JM, De 
Paula L, De Silva W, De Simone P, Dean CT, Decamp D, Deckenhoff M, Del Buono L,
Déléage N, Derkach D, Deschamps O, Dettori F, Di Canto A, Dijkstra H, Donleavy S,
Dordei F, Dorigo M, Dosil Suárez A, Dossett D, Dovbnya A, Dreimanis K, Dujany G, 
Dupertuis F, Durante P, Dzhelyadin R, Dziurda A, Dzyuba A, Easo S, Egede U,
Egorychev V, Eidelman S, Eisenhardt S, Eitschberger U, Ekelhof R, Eklund L, El
Rifai I, Elsasser Ch, Ely S, Esen S, Evans HM, Evans T, Falabella A, Färber C,
Farinelli C, Farley N, Farry S, Fay RF, Ferguson D, Fernandez Albor V, Ferreira
Rodrigues F, Ferro-Luzzi M, Filippov S, Fiore M, Fiorini M, Firlej M, Fitzpatrick
C, Fiutowski T, Fol P, Fontana M, Fontanelli F, Forty R, Francisco O, Frank M,
Frei C, Frosini M, Fu J, Furfaro E, Gallas Torreira A, Galli D, Gallorini S,
Gambetta S, Gandelman M, Gandini P, Gao Y, García Pardiñas J, Garofoli J, Garra
Tico J, Garrido L, Gascon D, Gaspar C, Gauld R, Gavardi L, Geraci A, Gersabeck E,
Gersabeck M, Gershon T, Ghez P, Gianelle A, Gianì S, Gibson V, Giubega L,
Gligorov VV, Göbel C, Golubkov D, Golutvin A, Gomes A, Gotti C, Grabalosa Gándara
M, Graciani Diaz R, Granado Cardoso LA, Graugés E, Graverini E, Graziani G, Grecu
A, Greening E, Gregson S, Griffith P, Grillo L, Grünberg O, Gui B, Gushchin E,
Guz Y, Gys T, Hadjivasiliou C, Haefeli G, Haen C, Haines SC, Hall S, Hamilton B, 
Hampson T, Han X, Hansmann-Menzemer S, Harnew N, Harnew ST, Harrison J, He J,
Head T, Heijne V, Hennessy K, Henrard P, Henry L, Hernando Morata JA, van
Herwijnen E, Heß M, Hicheur A, Hill D, Hoballah M, Hombach C, Hulsbergen W, Hunt 
P, Hussain N, Hutchcroft D, Hynds D, Idzik M, Ilten P, Jacobsson R, Jaeger A,
Jalocha J, Jans E, Jaton P, Jawahery A, Jing F, John M, Johnson D, Jones CR,
Joram C, Jost B, Jurik N, Kandybei S, Kanso W, Karacson M, Karbach TM, Karodia S,
Kelsey M, Kenyon IR, Ketel T, Khanji B, Khurewathanakul C, Klaver S, Klimaszewski
K, Kochebina O, Kolpin M, Komarov I, Koopman RF, Koppenburg P, Korolev M,
Kozlinskiy A, Kravchuk L, Kreplin K, Kreps M, Krocker G, Krokovny P, Kruse F,
Kucewicz W, Kucharczyk M, Kudryavtsev V, Kurek K, Kvaratskheliya T, La Thi VN,
Lacarrere D, Lafferty G, Lai A, Lambert D, Lambert RW, Lanfranchi G, Langenbruch 
C, Langhans B, Latham T, Lazzeroni C, Le Gac R, van Leerdam J, Lees JP, Lefèvre
R, Leflat A, Lefrançois J, Leo S, Leroy O, Lesiak T, Leverington B, Li Y,
Likhomanenko T, Liles M, Lindner R, Linn C, Lionetto F, Liu B, Lohn S, Longstaff 
I, Lopes JH, Lopez-March N, Lowdon P, Lucchesi D, Luo H, Lupato A, Luppi E,
Lupton O, Machefert F, Machikhiliyan IV, Maciuc F, Maev O, Malde S, Malinin A,
Manca G, Mancinelli G, Mapelli A, Maratas J, Marchand JF, Marconi U, Marin Benito
C, Marino P, Märki R, Marks J, Martellotti G, Martín Sánchez A, Martinelli M,
Martinez Santos D, Martinez Vidal F, Martins Tostes D, Massafferri A, Matev R,
Mathe Z, Matteuzzi C, Maurin B, Mazurov A, McCann M, McCarthy J, McNab A, McNulty
R, McSkelly B, Meadows B, Meier F, Meissner M, Merk M, Milanes DA, Minard MN,
Moggi N, Molina Rodriguez J, Monteil S, Morandin M, Morawski P, Mordà A, Morello 
MJ, Moron J, Morris AB, Mountain R, Muheim F, Müller K, Mussini M, Muster B, Naik
P, Nakada T, Nandakumar R, Nasteva I, Needham M, Neri N, Neubert S, Neufeld N,
Neuner M, Nguyen AD, Nguyen TD, Nguyen-Mau C, Nicol M, Niess V, Niet R, Nikitin
N, Nikodem T, Novoselov A, O'Hanlon DP, Oblakowska-Mucha A, Obraztsov V, Oggero
S, Ogilvy S, Okhrimenko O, Oldeman R, Onderwater CJ, Orlandea M, Otalora
Goicochea JM, Otto A, Owen P, Oyanguren A, Pal BK, Palano A, Palombo F, Palutan
M, Panman J, Papanestis A, Pappagallo M, Pappalardo LL, Parkes C, Parkinson CJ,
Passaleva G, Patel GD, Patel M, Patrignani C, Pearce A, Pellegrino A, Pepe
Altarelli M, Perazzini S, Perret P, Perrin-Terrin M, Pescatore L, Pesen E,
Petridis K, Petrolini A, Picatoste Olloqui E, Pietrzyk B, Pilař T, Pinci D,
Pistone A, Playfer S, Plo Casasus M, Polci F, Poluektov A, Polycarpo E, Popov A, 
Popov D, Popovici B, Potterat C, Price E, Price JD, Prisciandaro J, Pritchard A, 
Prouve C, Pugatch V, Puig Navarro A, Punzi G, Qian W, Rachwal B, Rademacker JH,
Rakotomiaramanana B, Rama M, Rangel MS, Raniuk I, Rauschmayr N, Raven G, Redi F, 
Reichert S, Reid MM, dos Reis AC, Ricciardi S, Richards S, Rihl M, Rinnert K,
Rives Molina V, Robbe P, Rodrigues AB, Rodrigues E, Rodriguez Perez P, Roiser S, 
Romanovsky V, Romero Vidal A, Rotondo M, Rouvinet J, Ruf T, Ruiz H, Ruiz Valls P,
Saborido Silva JJ, Sagidova N, Sail P, Saitta B, Salustino Guimaraes V, Sanchez
Mayordomo C, Sanmartin Sedes B, Santacesaria R, Santamarina Rios C, Santovetti E,
Sarti A, Satriano C, Satta A, Saunders DM, Savrina D, Schiller M, Schindler H,
Schlupp M, Schmelling M, Schmidt B, Schneider O, Schopper A, Schubiger M, Schune 
MH, Schwemmer R, Sciascia B, Sciubba A, Semennikov A, Sepp I, Serra N, Serrano J,
Sestini L, Seyfert P, Shapkin M, Shapoval I, Shcheglov Y, Shears T, Shekhtman L, 
Shevchenko V, Shires A, Silva Coutinho R, Simi G, Sirendi M, Skidmore N,
Skillicorn I, Skwarnicki T, Smith NA, Smith E, Smith E, Smith J, Smith M, Snoek
H, Sokoloff MD, Soler FJ, Soomro F, Souza D, Souza De Paula B, Spaan B, Spradlin 
P, Sridharan S, Stagni F, Stahl M, Stahl S, Steinkamp O, Stenyakin O, Stevenson
S, Stoica S, Stone S, Storaci B, Stracka S, Straticiuc M, Straumann U, Stroili R,
Subbiah VK, Sun L, Sutcliffe W, Swientek K, Swientek S, Syropoulos V, Szczekowski
M, Szczypka P, Szumlak T, T'Jampens S, Teklishyn M, Tellarini G, Teubert F,
Thomas C, Thomas E, van Tilburg J, Tisserand V, Tobin M, Todd J, Tolk S,
Tomassetti L, Tonelli D, Topp-Joergensen S, Torr N, Tournefier E, Tourneur S,
Tran MT, Tresch M, Trisovic A, Tsaregorodtsev A, Tsopelas P, Tuning N, Ubeda
Garcia M, Ukleja A, Ustyuzhanin A, Uwer U, Vacca C, Vagnoni V, Valenti G, Vallier
A, Vazquez Gomez R, Vazquez Regueiro P, Vázquez Sierra C, Vecchi S, Velthuis JJ, 
Veltri M, Veneziano G, Vesterinen M, Viaud B, Vieira D, Vieites Diaz M,
Vilasis-Cardona X, Vollhardt A, Volyanskyy D, Voong D, Vorobyev A, Vorobyev V,
Voß C, de Vries JA, Waldi R, Wallace C, Wallace R, Walsh J, Wandernoth S, Wang J,
Ward DR, Watson NK, Websdale D, Whitehead M, Wicht J, Wiedner D, Wilkinson G,
Wilkinson M, Williams MP, Williams M, Wilschut HW, Wilson FF, Wimberley J,
Wishahi J, Wislicki W, Witek M, Wormser G, Wotton SA, Wright S, Wyllie K, Xie Y, 
Xing Z, Xu Z, Yang Z, Yuan X, Yushchenko O, Zangoli M, Zavertyaev M, Zhang L,
Zhang WC, Zhang Y, Zhelezov A, Zhokhov A, Zhong L; LHCb Collaboration.

The semileptonic CP asymmetry in B0-B[over ¯]0 mixing, a(sl)(d), is measured in
proton-proton collision data, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of
3.0  fb-1, recorded by the LHCb experiment. Semileptonic B0 decays are
reconstructed in the inclusive final states D-μ+ and D*-μ+, where the D- meson
decays into the K+π-π- final state and the D*- meson into the D[over ¯]0(→K+π-)π-
final state. The asymmetry between the numbers of D(*)-μ+ and D(*)+μ- decays is
measured as a function of the decay time of the B0 mesons. The CP asymmetry is
measured to be a(sl)(d)=(-0.02±0.19±0.30)%, where the first uncertainty is
statistical and the second systematic. This is the most precise measurement of
a(sl)(d) to date and is consistent with the prediction from the standard model.

PMID: 25679884  [PubMed - in process]


578. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):368-72. doi: 10.1002/mds.26081. Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Effect of neurostimulation on camptocormia in Parkinson's disease depends on
symptom duration.

Schulz-Schaeffer WJ(1), Margraf NG, Munser S, Wrede A, Buhmann C, Deuschl G,
Oehlwein C.

Author information: 
(1)Prion and Dementia Research Unit, Institute of Neuropathology, University
Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Although some reports on neurostimulation are positive, no effective treatment
method for camptocormia in Parkinson's disease (PD) is known to date. We aim to
identify prognostic factors for a beneficial DBS effect on camptocormia. In an
observational cohort study, we investigated 25 idiopathic PD patients, who
suffered additionally from camptocormia, and underwent bilateral neurostimulation
of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) to improve classical PD symptoms. Using an
established questionnaire, we examined deep brain stimulation (DBS) effects on
camptocormia in addition to general neurostimulation effects. A beneficial
neurostimulation effect on camptocormia was defined as an improvement in the
bending angle of a least 50%. In 13 patients, the bending angle of camptocormia
improved, in 12 patients it did not. A multifactorial analysis revealed a short
duration between onset of camptocormia and start of neurostimulation to be the
relevant factor for outcome. All patients with duration of camptocormia up to 1.5
years showed a beneficial effect; patients between 1.5 and ∼3 years showed mixed 
results, but none with a duration of more than 40 months improved except for 1
patient whose camptocormia was levodopa responsive. The bending angle was not a
prognostic factor. Our data indicate that the main prognostic factor for a
beneficial DBS effect on camptocormia is its short duration. As an explanation,
we suggest that neurostimulation may improve camptocormia only as long as muscle 
pathology is limited. Our findings may help to elucidate the mode of action of
neurostimulation. A prospective study is necessary.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25678310  [PubMed - in process]


579. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):639-45. doi: 10.1002/mds.26079. Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Orthostatic hypotension in Parkinson disease: how much you fall or how low you
go?

Palma JA(1), Gomez-Esteban JC, Norcliffe-Kaufmann L, Martinez J, Tijero B,
Berganzo K, Kaufmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Dysautonomia Center, Department of Neurology, New York University Medical
Center, New York, New York, USA.

Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is frequent in patients with Parkinson's disease
(PD) and can occur with or without symptoms. Pharmacological treatments are
effective, but often exacerbate supine hypertension. Guidelines exist for the
diagnosis, but not for the treatment of OH. We examined the relationship between 
blood pressure (BP) and symptoms in a cohort of PD patients with the goal of
identifying a hemodynamic target to guide treatment. We measured BP supine and
upright (tilt or active standing) and identified the presence or absence of
symptomatic OH by using a validated patient-reported outcome questionnaire in 210
patients with PD. We evaluated the usefulness of the 20/10 and 30/15 mmHg
diagnostic criteria (systolic/diastolic) to identify symptomatic OH. Fifty
percent of the PD patient cohort met criteria for the 20/10 fall and 30% for the 
30/15 BP fall. Among the patients who met either OH criteria, the percentage of
those with symptoms was small (33% of those with 20/10 and 44% of those with
30/15 mmHg; 16% and 13%, respectively, overall). Symptomatic OH was associated
with an upright mean BP below 75 mmHg. A mean standing BP <75 mmHg had a
sensitivity of 97% and a specificity of 98% for detecting symptomatic OH.
Although the prevalence of OH in PD is high, not all patients have symptoms of
organ hypoperfusion. A mean standing BP below 75 mmHg appears to be a useful
benchmark when deciding whether the benefits of initiating pharmacological
treatment of OH outweigh the risks of exacerbating supine hypertension. © 2015
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4397106 [Available on 2016-04-15]
PMID: 25678194  [PubMed - in process]


580. Aging Cell. 2015 Jun;14(3):293-308. doi: 10.1111/acel.12312. Epub 2015 Feb 9.

Parkinson's disease as a result of aging.

Rodriguez M(1), Rodriguez-Sabate C, Morales I, Sanchez A, Sabate M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Experimental Neurology, Department of
Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of La Laguna, La Laguna, Spain;
Center for Networked Biomedical Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases
(CIBERNED), La Laguna, Spain.

It is generally considered that Parkinson's disease is induced by specific agents
that degenerate a clearly defined population of dopaminergic neurons. Data
commented in this review suggest that this assumption is not as clear as is often
thought and that aging may be critical for Parkinson's disease. Neurons
degenerating in Parkinson's disease also degenerate in normal aging, and the
different agents involved in the etiology of this illness are also involved in
aging. Senescence is a wider phenomenon affecting cells all over the body,
whereas Parkinson's disease seems to be restricted to certain brain centers and
cell populations. However, reviewed data suggest that Parkinson's disease may be 
a local expression of aging on cell populations which, by their characteristics
(high number of synaptic terminals and mitochondria, unmyelinated axons, etc.),
are highly vulnerable to the agents promoting aging. The development of new
knowledge about Parkinson's disease could be accelerated if the research on aging
and Parkinson's disease were planned together, and the perspective provided by
gerontology gains relevance in this field.

© 2015 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley
& Sons Ltd.

PMCID: PMC4406659 [Available on 2015-06-01]
PMID: 25677794  [PubMed - in process]


581. Vitam Horm. 2015;97:241-66. doi: 10.1016/bs.vh.2014.11.003. Epub 2015 Jan 14.

Nociceptin/orphanin FQ-NOP receptor system in inflammatory and immune-mediated
diseases.

Gavioli EC(1), de Medeiros IU(1), Monteiro MC(2), Calo G(3), Romão PR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysic and Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande do 
Norte, Natal, Brazil. (2)Laboratory of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology,
Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal University of Pará, Belém, Brazil. (3)Department of 
Medical Sciences, Section of Pharmacology and National Institute of Neuroscience,
University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (4)Laboratory of Immunology, Department of
Basic Health Sciences, Federal University of Health Sciences of Porto Alegre, Rua
Sarmento Leite, Porto Alegre, Brazil. Electronic address: pedror@ufcspa.edu.br.

The neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is the endogenous ligand of the
G-protein-coupled receptor NOP. Cells from the immune system express the
precursor preproN/OFQ and the NOP receptor, as well as secrete N/OFQ. The
activation of the N/OFQ-NOP pathway can regulate inflammatory and immune
responses. Several immune activities, including leukocyte migration, cytokine and
chemokine production, and lymphocytes proliferation are influenced by NOP
activation. It was demonstrated that cytokines and other stimuli such as
Toll-like receptor agonist (e.g., lipopolysaccharide) induce N/OFQ production by 
cells from innate and adaptive immune response. In this context, N/OFQ could
modulate the outcome of inflammatory diseases, such as sepsis and immune-mediated
pathologies by mechanisms not clearly elucidated. In fact, clinical studies
revealed increased levels of N/OFQ under sepsis, arthritis, and Parkinson's
disease. Preclinical and clinical studies pointed to the blockade of NOP receptor
signaling as successful strategy for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. This
review is focused on experimental and clinical data that suggest the
participation of N/OFQ-NOP receptor activation in the modulation of the immune
response, highlighting the immunomodulatory potential of NOP antagonists in the
inflammatory and immunological disturbances.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25677775  [PubMed - in process]


582. J Neurosci Res. 2015 May;93(5):755-65. doi: 10.1002/jnr.23544. Epub 2015 Feb 9.

Silibinin prevents dopaminergic neuronal loss in a mouse model of Parkinson's
disease via mitochondrial stabilization.

Lee Y(1), Park HR, Chun HJ, Lee J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy and Research Institute for Drug
Development, Longevity Life Science and Technology Institutes, Pusan National
University, Geumjeong-gu, Busan, Korea.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized
by the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway. The
lipophile 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) can cross the
blood-brain barrier and is subsequently metabolized into
toxic1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+) ), which causes mitochondrial dysfunction 
and the selective cell death of dopaminergic neurons. The present article reports
the neuroprotective effects of silibinin in a murine MPTP model of PD. The
flavonoid silibinin is the major active constituent of silymarin, an extract of
milk thistle seeds, and is known to have hepatoprotective, anticancer,
antioxidative, and neuroprotective effects. In the present study, silibinin
effectively attenuated motor deficit and dopaminergic neuronal loss caused by
MPTP. Furthermore, in vitro study confirmed that silibinin protects primary
cultured neurons against MPP(+) -induced cell death and mitochondrial membrane
disruption. The findings of the present study indicate that silibinin has
neuroprotective effects in MPTP-induced models of PD rather than antioxidative or
anti-inflammatory effects and that the neuroprotection afforded might be mediated
by the stabilization of mitochondrial membrane potential. Furthermore, these
findings suggest that silibinin protects mitochondria in MPTP-induced PD models
and that it offers a starting point for the development of treatments that
ameliorate the symptoms of PD.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25677261  [PubMed - in process]


583. Proteomics. 2015 Feb;15(4):627-9. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201570035.

New milestones in the development of characterization tools for neurodegenerative
diseases in proteomics: 22nd HUPO BPP Workshop 7 October 2014, Madrid, Spain.

Schrötter A(1), Magraoui FE, Marcus K, Park YM, Meyer HE, Grinberg LT.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz-Institut für Analytische Wissenschaften -ISAS- e. V, Biomedical
Research, Dortmund, Germany; Leibniz-Institut für Analytische Wissenschaften
-ISAS- e. V, Human Brain Proteomics I, Dortmund, Germany.

PMID: 25676247  [PubMed - in process]


584. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Feb 11. doi: 10.1002/gps.4261. [Epub ahead of
print]

Mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease and its progression onto
dementia: a 16-year outcome evaluation of the Denbighshire cohort.

Hobson P(1), Meara J.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Unit, Glan Clwyd Hospital, Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board,
Bodelwyddan, LL18 5UJ, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD-MCI) has been
suggested to be a predictor for the development of PD dementia (PDD). This study 
explored the incidence and possible neuropsychological domain differences between
PD patients with PD-MCI and without cognitive impairment (normal cognitive
function with PD), on the basis of the Movement Disorders Task Force Guidelines
for PD-MCI.
METHODS: At baseline (T1), 4 years (T2) and 6 years (T3), 166 patients with PD
were administered global neuropsychological assessments. At 16 years, case note
and neuropsychological assessment review was employed to calculate the number of 
patients who had progressed to PDD.
RESULTS: At baseline, 68 patients were classified as normal cognitive function
with PD, 18 with PD-MCI and 80 with PDD. At T2, 12 of the PD-MCI cohort at T1 had
progressed to PDD, and there were 15 incident cases of PD-MCI. At T3, nine PD-MCI
cases at T2 had progressed to PDD. There were 10 incident cases of PD-MCI at T3. 
The incidence of progression from PD-MCI to PDD was 98.0 per 1000 person-years,
with an annual conversion rate to PDD of 11%. Neuropsychological predictors for
conversion from PD-MCI to PDD were semantic language, praxis (figure
drawing/copying) and visuospatial deficits. At 16 years, 91% of the PD-MCI cohort
had progressed to PDD.
CONCLUSIONS: Mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease is an important
predictor for the progression to PDD. This investigation also confirmed that if
PD patients live long enough, they will develop cognitive impairment or dementia.
Early detection of cognitive impairment in these individuals is possible with
existing standardised global cognitive assessments, which include semantic
language assessment. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25676160  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


585. Ann Neurol. 2015 May;77(5):895-901. doi: 10.1002/ana.24384. Epub 2015 Mar 13.

MicroRNA association with synucleinopathy conversion in rapid eye movement
behavior disorder.

Fernández-Santiago R(1), Iranzo A, Gaig C, Serradell M, Fernández M, Tolosa E,
Santamaría J, Ezquerra M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Disorders, Department of Neurology, Hospital
Clínic of Barcelona, August Pi i Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBAPS), 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona; Center for Biomedical Research in
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Madrid.

Recently, we reported downregulated circulating levels of the microRNAs miR-19b, 
miR-29a, and miR-29c in Parkinson disease. Here we investigated the expression of
these microRNAs in serum samples from 56 patients with idiopathic rapid eye
movement sleep behavior disorder, before and after their conversion into a
synucleinopathy. Compared to controls, we found that the expression level of
miR-19b is downregulated in patients with idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep
behavior disorder and antedates the diagnosis of Parkinson disease and dementia
with Lewy bodies after 4.67 ± 2.61 years of follow-up. Our findings indicate that
dysregulation of the microRNA miR-19b occurs in the prodromal stage of
synucleinopathies. Ann Neurol 2015;77:895-901.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25675938  [PubMed - in process]


586. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Feb 24;112(8):2563-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1411011112. Epub 2015 Feb 9.

Metabolic resting-state brain networks in health and disease.

Spetsieris PG(1), Ko JH(1), Tang CC(1), Nazem A(1), Sako W(1), Peng S(1), Ma
Y(1), Dhawan V(1), Eidelberg D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurosciences, The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research,
Manhasset, NY 11030. (2)Center for Neurosciences, The Feinstein Institute for
Medical Research, Manhasset, NY 11030 david1@nshs.edu.

The delineation of resting state networks (RSNs) in the human brain relies on the
analysis of temporal fluctuations in functional MRI signal, representing a small 
fraction of total neuronal activity. Here, we used metabolic PET, which maps
nonfluctuating signals related to total activity, to identify and validate
reproducible RSN topographies in healthy and disease populations. In healthy
subjects, the dominant (first component) metabolic RSN was topographically
similar to the default mode network (DMN). In contrast, in Parkinson's disease
(PD), this RSN was subordinated to an independent disease-related pattern.
Network functionality was assessed by quantifying metabolic RSN expression in
cerebral blood flow PET scans acquired at rest and during task performance.
Consistent task-related deactivation of the "DMN-like" dominant metabolic RSN was
observed in healthy subjects and early PD patients; in contrast, the subordinate 
RSNs were activated during task performance. Network deactivation was reduced in 
advanced PD; this abnormality was partially corrected by dopaminergic therapy.
Time-course comparisons of DMN loss in longitudinal resting metabolic scans from 
PD and Alzheimer's disease subjects illustrated that significant reductions
appeared later for PD, in parallel with the development of cognitive dysfunction.
In contrast, in Alzheimer's disease significant reductions in network expression 
were already present at diagnosis, progressing over time. Metabolic imaging can
directly provide useful information regarding the resting organization of the
brain in health and disease.

PMCID: PMC4345616 [Available on 2015-08-24]
PMID: 25675473  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nat Prod Res. 2015 Feb 12:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

A new aldehyde compound from the fruit of Pandanus tectorius Parkinson ex Du Roi.

Mai DT(1), Le TD, Nguyen TP, Phan NM, Nguyen HA, Nguyen TT, Tran LQ.

Author information: 
(1)a Bioactive Compounds Laboratory, Institute of Chemical Technology, Vietnam
Academy of Science and Technology , 01 Mac Dinh Chi Street, District 1, Ho Chi
Minh City , Vietnam.

From the fruit of Pandanus tectorius Parkinson ex Du Roi, one new (1) and six
known aldehyde compounds (2-7) were isolated by various chromatography methods.
Based on their spectroscopic data, these compounds were identified as
(Z)-4-hydroxy-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methylbut-2-en-1-yl) benzaldehyde (1),
p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (2), syringaldehyde (3), (E)-ferulaldehyde (4),
(E)-sinapinaldehyde (5), vanillin (6) and 5-hydroxymethylfurfual (7). The
α-glucosidase inhibitory activity of all compounds was measured. The isolated
compounds (1-6) showed better α-glucosidase inhibitory activity (IC50 values
ranging from 36.5 to 192.4 μM) than the standard drug acarbose (IC50 = 214.5 μM).

PMID: 25674660  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


588. J Neurosci. 2015 Feb 11;35(6):2703-16. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3245-14.2015.

Basal ganglia outputs map instantaneous position coordinates during behavior.

Barter JW(1), Li S(2), Sukharnikova T(2), Rossi MA(2), Bartholomew RA(2), Yin
HH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Center for Cognitive Neuroscience, 
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708. (2)Department of Psychology and
Neuroscience. (3)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Department of
Neurobiology, and Center for Cognitive Neuroscience, Duke University, Durham,
North Carolina 27708 hy43@duke.edu.

The basal ganglia (BG) are implicated in many movement disorders, yet how they
contribute to movement remains unclear. Using wireless in vivo recording, we
measured BG output from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) in mice while 
monitoring their movements with video tracking. The firing rate of most nigral
neurons reflected Cartesian coordinates (either x- or y-coordinates) of the
animal's head position during movement. The firing rates of SNr neurons are
either positively or negatively correlated with the coordinates. Using an
egocentric reference frame, four types of neurons can be classified: each type
increases firing during movement in a particular direction (left, right, up,
down), and decreases firing during movement in the opposite direction. Given the 
high correlation between the firing rate and the x and y components of the
position vector, the movement trajectory can be reconstructed from neural
activity. Our results therefore demonstrate a quantitative and continuous
relationship between BG output and behavior. Thus, a steady BG output signal from
the SNr (i.e., constant firing rate) is associated with the lack of overt
movement, when a stable posture is maintained by structures downstream of the BG.
Any change in SNr firing rate is associated with a change in position (i.e.,
movement). We hypothesize that the SNr output quantitatively determines the
direction, velocity, and amplitude of voluntary movements. By changing the
reference signals to downstream position control systems, the BG can produce
transitions in body configurations and initiate actions.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/352703-14$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4323537 [Available on 2015-08-11]
PMID: 25673860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Neurophysiol. 2015 May;113(9):3038-46. doi: 10.1152/jn.01072.2014. Epub 2015
Feb 11.

Effects of subthalamic deep brain stimulation on blink abnormalities of 6-OHDA
lesioned rats.

Kaminer J(1), Thakur P(2), Evinger C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Program of Integrative Neuroscience, Department of Psychology, Stony Brook
University, Stony Brook, New York; (2)Program in Neuroscience, Stony Brook
University, Stony Brook, New York; (3)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior,
Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York; and SUNY Eye Institute, Syracuse, 
New York leslie.evinger@stonybrook.edu.

Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rat
model share blink abnormalities. In view of the evolutionarily conserved
organization of blinking, characterization of blink reflex circuits in rodents
may elucidate the neural mechanisms of PD reflex abnormalities. We examine the
extent of this shared pattern of blink abnormalities by measuring blink reflex
excitability, blink reflex plasticity, and spontaneous blinking in 6-OHDA
lesioned rats. We also investigate whether 130-Hz subthalamic nucleus deep brain 
stimulation (STN DBS) affects blink abnormalities, as it does in PD patients.
Like PD patients, 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibit reflex blink hyperexcitability,
impaired blink plasticity, and a reduced spontaneous blink rate. At 130 Hz, but
not 16 Hz, STN DBS eliminates reflex blink hyperexcitability and restores both
short- and long-term blink plasticity. Replicating its lack of effect in PD
patients, 130-Hz STN DBS does not reinstate a normal temporal pattern or rate to 
spontaneous blinking in 6-OHDA lesioned rats. These data show that the 6-OHDA
lesioned rat is an ideal model system for investigating the neural bases of
reflex abnormalities in PD and highlight the complexity of PD's effects on motor 
control, by showing that dopamine depletion does not affect all blink systems via
the same neural mechanisms.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

PMID: 25673748  [PubMed - in process]


590. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Apr;113(7):2549-54. doi: 10.1152/jn.00997.2014. Epub 2015
Feb 11.

Modulation of motor cortex neuronal activity and motor behavior during
subthalamic nucleus stimulation in the normal primate.

Johnson LA(1), Xu W(2), Baker KB(1), Zhang J(1), Vitek JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota; and.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota; and 
vitek004@umn.edu.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a
well-established surgical therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). An
emerging hypothesis is that the therapeutic benefit of DBS is derived from direct
modulation of primary motor cortex (M1), yet little is known about the influence 
of STN DBS on individual neurons in M1. We investigated the effect of STN DBS,
delivered at discrete interval intensities (20, 40, 60, 80, and 100%) of
corticospinal tract threshold (CSTT), on motor performance and M1 neuronal
activity in a naive nonhuman primate. Motor performance during a food reach and
retrieval task improved during low-intensity stimulation (20% CSTT) but worsened 
as intensity approached the threshold for activation of corticospinal fibers (80%
and 100% CSTT). To assess cortical effects of STN DBS, spontaneous, extracellular
neuronal activity was collected from M1 neurons before, during, and after DBS at 
the same CSTT stimulus intensities. STN DBS significantly modulated the firing of
a majority of M1 neurons; however, the direction of effect varied with stimulus
intensity such that, at 20% CSTT, most neurons were suppressed, whereas at the
highest stimulus intensities the majority of neurons were activated. At a
population level, firing rates increased as stimulus intensity increased. These
results show that STN DBS influences both motor performance and M1 neuronal
activity systematically according to stimulus intensity. In addition, the
unanticipated reduction in reach times suggests that STN DBS, at stimulus
intensities lower than typically used for treatment of PD motor signs, can
enhance normal motor performance.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

PMID: 25673744  [PubMed - in process]


591. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 May;3(5):506-17. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0211.
Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Adenosine Receptor 2A Blockade Increases the Efficacy of Anti-PD-1 through
Enhanced Antitumor T-cell Responses.

Beavis PA(1), Milenkovski N(2), Henderson MA(2), John LB(2), Allard B(3), Loi
S(2), Kershaw MH(4), Stagg J(3), Darcy PK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia. Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, The University
of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. phil.darcy@petermac.org
paula.beavis@petermac.org. (2)Cancer Immunology Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer
Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Sir Peter MacCallum Department of
Oncology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. (3)Centre 
de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Faculté de
Pharmacie et Institut du Cancer de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada. (4)Cancer 
Immunology Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, The University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Department of Pathology, University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Department of Immunology, Monash
University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia. (5)Cancer Immunology Program, Peter
MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Sir Peter MacCallum
Department of Oncology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia. Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia. Department of Immunology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria,
Australia. phil.darcy@petermac.org paula.beavis@petermac.org.

Immunotherapy is rapidly emerging as a cancer treatment with high potential.
Recent clinical trials with anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies (mAbs)
suggest that targeting multiple immunosuppressive pathways may significantly
improve patient survival. The generation of adenosine by CD73 also suppresses
antitumor immune responses through the activation of A2A receptors on T cells and
natural killer (NK) cells. We sought to determine whether blockade of A2A
receptors could enhance the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb. The expression of CD73 by 
tumor cells limited the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb in two tumor models, and this
was alleviated with concomitant treatment with an A2A adenosine receptor
antagonist. The blockade of PD-1 enhanced A2A receptor expression on
tumor-infiltrating CD8(+) T cells, making them more susceptible to A2A-mediated
suppression. Thus, dual blockade of PD-1 and A2A significantly enhanced the
expression of IFNγ and Granzyme B by tumor-infiltrating CD8(+) T cells and,
accordingly, increased growth inhibition of CD73(+) tumors and survival of mice. 
The results of our study indicate that CD73 expression may constitute a potential
biomarker for the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb in patients with cancer and that the 
efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb can be significantly enhanced by A2A antagonists. We
have therefore revealed a potentially novel biomarker for the efficacy of
anti-PD-1 that warrants further investigation in patients. Because our studies
used SYN-115, a drug that has already undergone phase IIb testing in Parkinson
disease, our findings have immediate translational relevance for patients with
cancer. Cancer Immunol Res; 3(5); 506-17. ©2015 AACR.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25672397  [PubMed - in process]


592. Psychiatry Investig. 2015 Jan;12(1):146-9. doi: 10.4306/pi.2015.12.1.146. Epub
2015 Jan 12.

A Long Term Effects of a New Onset Psychosis after DBS Treated with Quetiapine in
a Patient with Parkinson's Disease.

Piccoli S(1), Perini G(2), Pizzighello S(1), Vestri A(1), Ferri G(3), Toffanin
T(3), Follador H(3), Martinuzzi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rehabilitation Unit for the Acquired Neuropsychological Disorders, "E. Medea" 
Scientific Institute Conegliano-Pieve di Soligo Research Center, Pieve di Soligo,
Italy. (2)Department of Mental Health ULSS 7, Pieve di Soligo, Italy. ;
Department of Neuroscience, University of Padoua, Padoua, Italy. (3)Department of
Mental Health ULSS 7, Pieve di Soligo, Italy.

Deep Brain Stimulation represents a therapeutic option for PD patients. In this
paper, we present and discuss a case of acute delirium and psychosis manifesting 
after DBS in a 58-years-old man affected by Parkinson's Disease. We highlight the
importance of an exhaustive psychiatric evaluation in candidates for DBS and we
underline the severity and non-reversibility of some adverse events associated
with the implantation, suggesting the use of Quetiapine in the management of
these effects. Acute psychosis may be listed as a potential severe adverse event 
associated with DBS, even in patients without a clear cut previous history of
psychiatric disorders.

PMCID: PMC4310913
PMID: 25670958  [PubMed]


593. MBio. 2015 Feb 10;6(1). pii: e02445-14. doi: 10.1128/mBio.02445-14.

Systems-based analysis of the Sarcocystis neurona genome identifies pathways that
contribute to a heteroxenous life cycle.

Blazejewski T(1), Nursimulu N, Pszenny V(2), Dangoudoubiyam S(3), Namasivayam
S(4), Chiasson MA(2), Chessman K, Tonkin M(5), Swapna LS(1), Hung SS, Bridgers
J(4), Ricklefs SM(6), Boulanger MJ(5), Dubey JP(6), Porcella SF(7), Kissinger JC,
Howe DK(3), Grigg ME(8), Parkinson J(9).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Structure and Function, Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (2)Molecular Parasitology Section, Laboratory of
Parasitic Diseases, NIAID, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland,
USA. (3)Gluck Equine Research Center, Department of Veterinary Science,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA. (4)Department of Genetics,
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, USA. (5)Department of Biochemistry and
Microbiology, University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. (6)U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Animal Parasitic Diseases Laboratory, Beltsville
Agricultural Research Center, Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville,
Maryland, USA. (7)Genomics Unit, Research Technologies Section, Rocky Mountain
Laboratories, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Hamilton,
Montana, USA. (8)Molecular Parasitology Section, Laboratory of Parasitic
Diseases, NIAID, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA
john.parkinson@utoronto.ca griggm@niaid.nih.gov. (9)john.parkinson@utoronto.ca
griggm@niaid.nih.gov.

Sarcocystis neurona is a member of the coccidia, a clade of single-celled
parasites of medical and veterinary importance including Eimeria, Sarcocystis,
Neospora, and Toxoplasma. Unlike Eimeria, a single-host enteric pathogen,
Sarcocystis, Neospora, and Toxoplasma are two-host parasites that infect and
produce infectious tissue cysts in a wide range of intermediate hosts. As a
genus, Sarcocystis is one of the most successful protozoan parasites; all
vertebrates, including birds, reptiles, fish, and mammals are hosts to at least
one Sarcocystis species. Here we sequenced Sarcocystis neurona, the causal agent 
of fatal equine protozoal myeloencephalitis. The S. neurona genome is 127 Mbp,
more than twice the size of other sequenced coccidian genomes. Comparative
analyses identified conservation of the invasion machinery among the coccidia.
However, many dense-granule and rhoptry kinase genes, responsible for altering
host effector pathways in Toxoplasma and Neospora, are absent from S. neurona.
Further, S. neurona has a divergent repertoire of SRS proteins, previously
implicated in tissue cyst formation in Toxoplasma. Systems-based analyses
identified a series of metabolic innovations, including the ability to exploit
alternative sources of energy. Finally, we present an S. neurona model detailing 
conserved molecular innovations that promote the transition from a purely enteric
lifestyle (Eimeria) to a heteroxenous parasite capable of infecting a wide range 
of intermediate hosts.IMPORTANCE: Sarcocystis neurona is a member of the
coccidia, a clade of single-celled apicomplexan parasites responsible for major
economic and health care burdens worldwide. A cousin of Plasmodium,
Cryptosporidium, Theileria, and Eimeria, Sarcocystis is one of the most
successful parasite genera; it is capable of infecting all vertebrates (fish,
reptiles, birds, and mammals-including humans). The past decade has witnessed an 
increasing number of human outbreaks of clinical significance associated with
acute sarcocystosis. Among Sarcocystis species, S. neurona has a wide host range 
and causes fatal encephalitis in horses, marine mammals, and several other
mammals. To provide insights into the transition from a purely enteric parasite
(e.g., Eimeria) to one that forms tissue cysts (Toxoplasma), we present the first
genome sequence of S. neurona. Comparisons with other coccidian genomes highlight
the molecular innovations that drive its distinct life cycle strategies.

Copyright © 2015 Blazejewski et al.

PMCID: PMC4337577
PMID: 25670772  [PubMed - in process]


594. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb 10. pii: jnnp-2014-310065. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-310065. [Epub ahead of print]

Dietary cholesterol, fats and risk of Parkinson's disease in the Singapore
Chinese Health Study.

Tan LC(1), Methawasin K(2), Tan EK(1), Tan JH(3), Au WL(1), Yuan JM(4), Koh
WP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore, Singapore
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Department
of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Medicine, National University Health System, Singapore,
Singapore. (4)Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences, University of
Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA Department of
Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. (5)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore,
Singapore, Singapore Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University
of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Prospective studies on lipids and risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) in
Asian populations are sparse. This study prospectively examined the associations 
between dietary cholesterol and major fatty acids, and risk of PD among the
Chinese in Singapore.
METHODS: This study used data from the Singapore Chinese Health Study, a
population-based prospective cohort of 63 257 men and women aged 45-74 years in
Singapore enrolled in 1993-1998. Dietary intakes of cholesterol and fatty acids
were derived from a validated semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire and
the Singapore Food Composition Table. Incident PD cases were identified either
through follow-up interviews or record linkage analysis with hospital discharge
and PD outpatient registries.
RESULTS: After an average of 14.6 years, 218 men and 193 women in the cohort
developed PD. Dietary cholesterol was associated with statistically significantly
lower risk of PD in a dose-dependent manner among men after adjustment for
established risk factors for PD and intakes of major fatty acids. Compared to the
lowest quartile, HR (95% CI) for the highest quartile was 0.53 (95% CI 0.33 to
0.84) (P for trend=0.006). Among women, dietary monounsaturated fatty acid was
inversely associated with PD risk (P for trend=0.033). Compared to the lowest
quartile, HR for the highest quartile was 0.44 (95% CI 0.22 to 0.88). There was
no statistically significant association between dietary saturated, n-3 and n-6
fatty acids and PD risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher intakes of cholesterol and monounsaturated fatty acids may
reduce risk of PD in men and women, respectively.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25669745  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


595. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2015 Mar;16(3):126-32. doi: 10.1038/nrn3896. Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Retromer in Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease and other neurological
disorders.

Small SA(1), Petsko GA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Ageing Brain,
Departments of Neurology, Radiology, and Psychiatry, Columbia University College 
of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032, USA. (2)Helen and Robert
Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Department of Neurology and Feil
Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medical College, New
York, New York 10065, USA.

Retromer is a protein assembly that has a central role in endosomal trafficking, 
and retromer dysfunction has been linked to a growing number of neurological
disorders. First linked to Alzheimer disease, retromer dysfunction causes a range
of pathophysiological consequences that have been shown to contribute to the core
pathological features of the disease. Genetic studies have established that
retromer dysfunction is also pathogenically linked to Parkinson disease, although
the biological mechanisms that mediate this link are only now being elucidated.
Most recently, studies have shown that retromer is a tractable target in drug
discovery for these and other disorders of the nervous system.

PMID: 25669742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. J Neurochem. 2015 Mar;132(6):731-41. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13060. Epub 2015 Feb 25.

Extracellular α-synuclein alters synaptic transmission in brain neurons by
perforating the neuronal plasma membrane.

Pacheco CR(1), Morales CN, Ramírez AE, Muñoz FJ, Gallegos SS, Caviedes PA, Aguayo
LG, Opazo CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.

It has been postulated that the accumulation of extracellular α-synuclein (α-syn)
might alter the neuronal membrane by formation of 'pore-like structures' that
will lead to alterations in ionic homeostasis. However, this has never been
demonstrated to occur in brain neuronal plasma membranes. In this study, we show 
that α-syn oligomers rapidly associate with hippocampal membranes in a punctate
fashion, resulting in increased membrane conductance (5 fold over control) and
the influx of both calcium and a fluorescent glucose analogue. The enhancement in
intracellular calcium (1.7 fold over control) caused a large increase in the
frequency of synaptic transmission (2.5 fold over control), calcium transients (3
fold over control), and synaptic vesicle release. Both primary hippocampal and
dissociated nigral neurons showed rapid increases in membrane conductance by
α-syn oligomers. In addition, we show here that α-syn caused synaptotoxic failure
associated with a decrease in SV2, a membrane protein of synaptic vesicles
associated with neurotransmitter release. In conclusion, extracellular α-syn
oligomers facilitate the perforation of the neuronal plasma membrane, thus
explaining, in part, the synaptotoxicity observed in neurodegenerative diseases
characterized by its extracellular accumulation. We propose that α-synuclein
(α-syn) oligomers form pore-like structures in the plasma membrane of neurons
from central nervous system (CNS). We believe that extracellular α-syn oligomers 
facilitate the formation of α-syn membrane pore-like structures, thus explaining,
in part, the synaptotoxicity observed in neurodegenerative diseases characterized
by its extracellular accumulation. We think that alterations in ionic homeostasis
and synaptic vesicular depletion are key steps that lead to synaptotoxicity
promoted by α -syn membrane pore-like structures.

© 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMID: 25669123  [PubMed - in process]


597. Nurs N Z. 2014 Dec-2015 Jan;20(11):19.

The place of magical thinking.

Parker D.

PMID: 25668864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Neurol Res. 2015 Feb 10:1743132815Y0000000010. [Epub ahead of print]

Association between nocturia and anxiety in Parkinson's disease.

Rana AQ, Paul DA, Qureshi AM, Ghazi A, Alenezi S, Rana MA, Moazen M, Akhter S,
Owlia A, Akhter MR, Randhawa S, Moosavi ZM, Rana AN.

Objective: The objective of the study was to determine whether there exists any
relationship between nocturia and anxiety in patients with Parkinson's disease
(PD). Although the exact cause of anxiety and nocturia in PD is unknown, we
hypothesized that there is a relationship between these two PD symptoms. Anxiety 
may exacerbate nocturia or an opposite relationship may be present in which
nocturia may result in heightened levels of anxiety. Methods: Our study consisted
of 314 PD patients, selected at random, and divided into groups based on the
presence or absence of anxiety and nocturia. The occurrence of anxiety and
nocturia was studied individually and collectively within these groups. Results: 
The study found a significant association between anxiety and nocturia primarily 
driven by all PD patients (P < 0.0001), with greater significance found for the
male patients (P < 0.0001) than female patients (P = 0.021). Discussion: Based on
these findings, we can conclude that anxiety and nocturia are not entirely
independent symptoms in all PD patients. Thus, addressing anxiety may improve
nocturia in PD or vice versa.

PMID: 25668297  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


599. JAMA. 2015 Feb 10;313(6):584-93. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.120.

Effect of creatine monohydrate on clinical progression in patients with Parkinson
disease: a randomized clinical trial.

Writing Group for the NINDS Exploratory Trials in Parkinson Disease (NET-PD)
Investigators, Kieburtz K(1), Tilley BC(2), Elm JJ(3), Babcock D(4), Hauser R(5),
Ross GW(6), Augustine AH(1), Augustine EU(1), Aminoff MJ(7), Bodis-Wollner IG(8),
Boyd J(9), Cambi F(10), Chou K(11), Christine CW(7), Cines M(12), Dahodwala
N(13), Derwent L(14), Dewey RB Jr(15), Hawthorne K(16), Houghton DJ(17), Kamp
C(1), Leehey M(18), Lew MF(16), Liang GS(19), Luo ST(2), Mari Z(20), Morgan
JC(21), Parashos S(22), Pérez A(2), Petrovitch H(6), Rajan S(2), Reichwein S(13),
Roth JT(7), Schneider JS(23), Shannon KM(24), Simon DK(25), Simuni T(26), Singer 
C(27), Sudarsky L(28), Tanner CM(19), Umeh CC(28), Williams K(26), Wills AM(28).

Collaborators: Kieburtz K, Tilley B, Babcock D, Galpern W, Hauser R, Kawai C,
Racette BA, Ravina B, Reichwein S, Ross G, Shannon KM, Suchowersky O, Tanner CM, 
Roth JT, Burau K, Elm J, Ye R, Pérez A, Baker D, Baker L, Bennett S, DeBlieck L, 
Frasier D, Gardiner I, Harman J, Kamp C, Khadim L, Lau G, Olsen B, Sharma S,
Shprecher D, Stoutenburg A, Weaver C, Wilson R, Goetz C, Ploth D, Gross CR, Bell 
KL, Chen DT, Foley R, Levy DE, Rodnitzky RL, Welch K, Beal M, Cummings JL,
DiEuliis D, Edwards DJ, Fahn S, Levin B, Katz RG, Marin DB, Olanow C, Martin JC, 
Piantadosi S, Powers WJ, Wichman A, Babcock D, Galpern W, Marler J, Moy C,
Odenkirchen J.

IMPORTANCE: There are no treatments available to slow or prevent the progression 
of Parkinson disease, despite its global prevalence and significant health care
burden. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Exploratory
Trials in Parkinson Disease program was established to promote discovery of
potential therapies.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether creatine monohydrate was more effective than
placebo in slowing long-term clinical decline in participants with Parkinson
disease.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: The Long-term Study 1, a multicenter,
double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, 1:1 randomized efficacy trial. 
Participants were recruited from 45 investigative sites in the United States and 
Canada and included 1741 men and women with early (within 5 years of diagnosis)
and treated (receiving dopaminergic therapy) Parkinson disease. Participants were
enrolled from March 2007 to May 2010 and followed up until September 2013.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomized to placebo or creatine (10 g/d)
monohydrate for a minimum of 5 years (maximum follow-up, 8 years).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome measure was a difference in
clinical decline from baseline to 5-year follow-up, compared between the 2
treatment groups using a global statistical test. Clinical status was defined by 
5 outcome measures: Modified Rankin Scale, Symbol Digit Modalities Test, PDQ-39
Summary Index, Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living scale, and
ambulatory capacity. All outcomes were coded such that higher scores indicated
worse outcomes and were analyzed by a global statistical test. Higher summed
ranks (range, 5-4775) indicate worse outcomes.
RESULTS: The trial was terminated early for futility based on results of a
planned interim analysis of participants enrolled at least 5 years prior to the
date of the analysis (n = 955). The median follow-up time was 4 years. Of the 955
participants, the mean of the summed ranks for placebo was 2360 (95% CI,
2249-2470) and for creatine was 2414 (95% CI, 2304-2524). The global statistical 
test yielded t1865.8 = -0.75 (2-sided P = .45). There were no detectable
differences (P < .01 to partially adjust for multiple comparisons) in adverse and
serious adverse events by body system.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among patients with early and treated Parkinson
disease, treatment with creatine monohydrate for at least 5 years, compared with 
placebo did not improve clinical outcomes. These findings do not support the use 
of creatine monohydrate in patients with Parkinson disease.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00449865.

PMCID: PMC4349346
PMID: 25668262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2015 Mar;44(1):xv-xvi. doi:
10.1016/j.gtc.2014.12.001. Epub 2015 Jan 13.

Improving our understanding of gastroparesis.

Parkman HP(1), Pasricha PJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)GI Section-Parkinson Pavilion 8th Floor, Temple University School of Medicine,
3401 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA. Electronic address:
henry.parkman@temple.edu. (2)Johns Hopkins Center for Neurogastroenterology,
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Carey School of Business, 720
Rutland Street, Ross 958, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address:
ppasric1@jhmi.edu.

PMID: 25667034  [PubMed - in process]


601. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2015 Mar;44(1):69-81. doi:
10.1016/j.gtc.2014.11.006. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Other forms of gastroparesis: postsurgical, Parkinson, other neurologic diseases,
connective tissue disorders.

Quigley EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Houston Methodist Hospital, Well 
Cornell Medical College, 6550 Fannin Street, SM 1001, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
Electronic address: equigley@tmhs.org.

Although many surgical procedures originally associated with gastroparesis are
less commonly performed nowadays, several more recently developed upper abdominal
procedures may be complicated by the development of gastroparesis. Gastroparesis 
has been described in association with neurologic disorders ranging from
Parkinson disease to muscular dystrophy, and its presence may have important
implications for patient management and prognosis. Although scleroderma is most
frequently linked with gastrointestinal motility disorder, gastroparesis has been
linked to several other connective tissue disorders. The management of these
patients presents several challenges, and is best conducted in the context of a
dedicated and skilled multidisciplinary team.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25667024  [PubMed - in process]


602. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2015 Mar;44(1):59-68. doi:
10.1016/j.gtc.2014.11.015. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Idiopathic gastroparesis.

Parkman HP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Section, Temple University School of Medicine, Parkinson
Pavilion 8th Floor, 3401 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.
Electronic address: henry.parkman@temple.edu.

Gastroparesis is a chronic symptomatic disorder of the stomach characterized by
delayed emptying without evidence of mechanical obstruction. Idiopathic
gastroparesis refers to gastroparesis of unknown cause not from diabetes; not
from prior gastric surgery; not related to other endocrine, neurologic,
rheumatologic causes of gastroparesis; and not related to medications that can
delay gastric emptying. There is overlap in the symptoms of idiopathic
gastroparesis and functional dyspepsia. Patients with idiopathic gastroparesis
often have a constellation of symptoms including nausea, vomiting, early satiety,
postprandial fullness, and upper abdominal pain. Current treatment options of
dietary management, prokinetics agents, antiemetic agents, and symptom modulators
do not adequately address clinical need for idiopathic gastroparesis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4324534 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25667023  [PubMed - in process]


603. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2015 Mar;44(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gtc.2014.11.001. 
Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Gastroparesis: definitions and diagnosis.

Pasricha PJ(1), Parkman HP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Center for Neurogastroenterology, Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine, 720 Rutland Street, Ross 958, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Johns Hopkins
Carey School of Business, Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)GI Section, Temple University
School of Medicine, Parkinson Pavilion 8th Floor, 3401 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA. Electronic address: henry.parkman@temple.edu.

Gastroparesis is a chronic symptomatic disorder of the stomach characterized by
delayed emptying without evidence of mechanical obstruction. Symptoms of
gastroparesis include nausea, vomiting, early satiety, postprandial fullness, and
upper abdominal pain. The 3 main causes are diabetic, postsurgical, and
idiopathic. Diagnosis is confirmed by demonstrating delayed gastric emptying.
Gastric emptying rates measured by gastric motor testing generally correlate
poorly with symptoms and quality of life in patients with gastroparesis. It may
be appropriate to reconsider the definition of gastroparesis, recognizing it as a
broader spectrum of gastric neuromuscular dysfunction.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25667018  [PubMed - in process]


604. Circulation. 2015 Feb 10;131(6):591-2. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.114.015198.

ECG response: February 10, 2015.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 25666981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 20;290(12):7492-505. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.614925. Epub
2015 Feb 9.

The E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Parkin Is Recruited to the 26 S Proteasome via the
Proteasomal Ubiquitin Receptor Rpn13.

Aguileta MA(1), Korac J(2), Durcan TM(1), Trempe JF(3), Haber M(1), Gehring K(3),
Elsasser S(4), Waidmann O(5), Fon EA(1), Husnjak K(6).

Author information: 
(1)From the McGill Parkinson Program and Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec H3A 2B4, Canada. (2)the School of Medicine, University of Split, 21000
Split, Croatia. (3)the Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec H3G 0B1, Canada. (4)the Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, and. (5)Goethe University Medical School,
D-60590 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. (6)Goethe University Medical School, D-60590 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany husnjak@biochem2.de.

Mutations in the Park2 gene, encoding the RING-HECT hybrid E3 ubiquitin ligase
parkin, are responsible for a common familial form of Parkinson disease. By mono-
and polyubiquitinating target proteins, parkin regulates various cellular
processes, including degradation of proteins within the 26 S proteasome, a large 
multimeric degradation machine. In our attempt to further elucidate the function 
of parkin, we have identified the proteasomal ubiquitin receptor Rpn13/ADRM1 as a
parkin-interacting protein. We show that the N-terminal ubiquitin-like (Ubl)
domain of parkin binds directly to the pleckstrin-like receptor for ubiquitin
(Pru) domain within Rpn13. Using mutational analysis and NMR, we find that Pru
binding involves the hydrophobic patch surrounding Ile-44 in the parkin Ubl, a
region that is highly conserved between ubiquitin and Ubl domains. However,
compared with ubiquitin, the parkin Ubl exhibits greater than 10-fold higher
affinity for the Pru domain. Moreover, knockdown of Rpn13 in cells increases
parkin levels and abrogates parkin recruitment to the 26 S proteasome,
establishing Rpn13 as the major proteasomal receptor for parkin. In contrast,
silencing Rpn13 did not impair parkin recruitment to mitochondria or
parkin-mediated mitophagy upon carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone-induced 
mitochondrial depolarization. However, it did delay the clearance of
mitochondrial proteins (TIM23, TIM44, and TOM20) and enhance parkin
autoubiquitination. Taken together, these findings implicate Rpn13 in linking
parkin to the 26 S proteasome and regulating the clearance of mitochondrial
proteins during mitophagy.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4367258 [Available on 2016-03-20]
PMID: 25666615  [PubMed - in process]


606. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Apr 22;164:247-55. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.042. Epub
2015 Feb 7.

Tanshinone I selectively suppresses pro-inflammatory genes expression in
activated microglia and prevents nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration in 
a mouse model of Parkinson׳s disease.

Wang S(1), Jing H(2), Yang H(2), Liu Z(1), Guo H(2), Chai L(2), Hu L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin State Key Laboratory of Modern Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 300193, China. (2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of
Chinese Medicine Pharmacology, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Tianjin 300193, China. (3)Tianjin State Key Laboratory of Modern
Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin
300193, China. Electronic address: huliminth@126.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Radix Salviae Miltiorrhizae, known as Danshen, is
a well-known traditional Chinese herb which has been used extensively for the
treatment of various diseases, including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
disease and neurodegenerative diseases for thousands of years. Tanshinone I is
one of major bioactive flavonoids of Radix Salviae Miltiorrhizae. Modulation of
microglial over-reaction may represent a therapeutic target to alleviate the
progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we tested the effect of
Tanshinone I on neuro-inflammation and whether it can provide neuroprotection
through inhibition of neuro-inflammation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of Tanshinone I on the production and/or mRNA 
expression of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory factors in
lipopolysaccharide(LPS)-induced BV-2 microglia cells were tested by Griess
reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) or real time polymerase chain
reaction. Activation of nuclear factor κ B (NF-κB) was measured by the nuclear
translocation p65 and DNA binding activity. A model of Parkinson׳s disease was
established by treatment of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
in C57BL/6 mice. The effect of Tanshinone I on the behavioral changes, dopamine
and its metabolites levels, expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and IBA-1,
production of cytokines in the midbrain were investigated by the rotarod test,
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-ECD, immunohistochemistry and
Elisa. 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) concentration was tested by HPLC. Liver
toxicity was determined by biochemical assay and histochemistry.
RESULTS: We found that the productions and/or expressions of several
pro-inflammatory M1 factors such as nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor-α
(TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-6 were highly suppressed by Tanshinone I
in LPS-induced microglia. Interestingly, it did not affect the enhancement of
expression of some anti-inflammatory M2 microglia markers, including IL-10, IL-1 
receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) and Cox-2. But it could significantly inhibit
LPS-induced granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) expression. Tanshinone 
I could also inhibit LPS-induced NF-κB activation in microglia. Furthermore, it
improved motor functions, normalized striatal neurotransmitters, and provided
dopaminergic neuronal protection in MPTP-intoxicated mice. In vivo results also
indicated that Tanshinone I could modulate MPTP-induced microglial activation,
attenuated the increase of TNF-α, reserved the increase of IL-10 concentrain of
MPTP-intoxicated mice. Tanshinone I does not alter MPTP toxic metabolite (MPP+)
concentration. Oral administration of Tanshinone I at 10mg/kg daily for 2 weeks
did not show liver toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Tanshinone I selectively suppressed pro-inflammatory M1 genes
expression in activated microglia, interestingly, partially reserved
anti-inflammatory M2 genes expression. It also could provide neuroprotection in a
mouse model of Parkinson׳s disease. These data indicated that Tanshinone I could 
make the most of the beneficial side and minimize the detrimental side of
activated microglia simultaneously, and provide neuroprotection by modulating the
immune response of microglia.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25666429  [PubMed - in process]


607. J Clin Sleep Med. 2015 Feb 10. pii: jc-00367-14. [Epub ahead of print]

REM Sleep Behavioral Events and Dreaming.

Muntean ML, Trenkwalder C, Walters AS, Mollenhauer B, Sixel-Döring F.

Study Objectives: To clarify whether motor behaviors and/ or vocalizations during
REM sleep, which do not yet fulfill diagnostic criteria for REM sleep behavior
disorder (RBD) and were defined as REM sleep behavioral events (RBEs), correspond
to dream enactments.
Methods: 13 subjects (10 patients with Parkinson disease [PD] and 3 healthy
controls) originally identified with RBE in a prospective study (DeNoPa cohort)
were reinvestigated 2 years later with 2 nights of video-supported
polysomnography (vPSG). The first night was used for sleep parameter analysis.
During the 2nd night, subjects were awakened and questioned for dream recall and 
dream content when purposeful motor behaviors and/ or vocalizations became
evident during REM sleep. REM sleep without atonia (RWA) was analyzed on chin EMG
and the cutoff set at 18.2% as specific for RBD.
Results: At the time of this investigation 9 of 13 subjects with previous RBE
were identified with RBD based upon clinical and EMG criteria. All recalled vivid
dreams, and 7 subjects were able to describe dream content in detail. Four of 13 
subjects with RBE showed RWA values below cutoff values for RBD. Three of these 4
subjects recalled having non-threatening dreams, and 2 (of these 3) were able to 
describe these dreams in detail.
Conclusion: RBE with RWA below the RBD defining criteria correlate to dreaming in
this selected cohort. There is evidence that RBEs are a precursor to RBD.

© 2014 American Academy of Sleep Medicine.

PMID: 25665694  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


608. Gerodontology. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1111/ger.12188. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkinson's disease and periodontitis - the missing link? A review.

Kaur T(1), Uppoor A, Naik D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal
University, Mangalore, India.

OBJECTIVE: In this article an attempt has been made to postulate a possible link 
between Parkinson's disease and periodontal disease.
BACKGROUND: Various systemic diseases such as cardiac disease, diabetes, renal
diseases, low birth weight and Alzheimer's disease have been proposed to be
linked with periodontal disease on the basis of systemic inflammation.
Parkinson's disease is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative disorder with
multifactorial aetiology. Until now, periodontal disease and Parkinson's disease 
has been linked only on the basis of poor motor and cognitive control in
Parkinson's patient which leads to poor oral health maintenance. Evidence now
suggests that chronic neuroinflammation is consistently associated with the
pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. Also, recently, systemic inflammation has
been suggested as one of the contributing factors for neurodegeneration.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Dental and medical literature especially those dealing with
neurosciences were selected which highlighted the link between systemic
inflammation and infection.
RESULTS: So far there is no direct evidence implicating an effect of
periodontitis in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. To clarify this link,
studies on population based case-control or cohort design are needed. This would 
be especially significant in the present era where there is paucity for
preventive measures as far as a cognitive disorder such as Parkinson's disease is
concerned.
CONCLUSION: We cannot cure Parkinson's disease, but if in future this missing
link is established, an attempt can be made to prevent it by tackling one of its 
possible contributors (periodontitis) for systemic inflammation by simple
preventive oral hygiene measures.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S and The Gerodontology Association. Published by John
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25664991  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


609. Prehosp Emerg Care. 2015 Feb 9. [Epub ahead of print]

Supraventricular Tachycardia Cardioverted by an Automated External Debrillator in
a 9-year-old Male with a History of Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome.

Cortez E, Davis J, Keseg D.

Abstract Early defibrillation for cardiac arrest patients is a formidable link in
the chain of survival promulgated by the American Heart Association. Automated
external defibrillators (AEDs) provide public access defibrillation for
out-of-hospital cardiac arrests and improve survivability. AEDs are only approved
for use in patients in cardiac arrest; defibrillation may be inadvertently
advised if utilized on a patient not experiencing cardiac arrest. We describe a
case report of an AED cardioversion of a stable, pediatric patient with acute
supraventricular tachycardia secondary to underlying Wolff-Parkinson-White
syndrome. We discuss general AED principles, the cardioversion function on the
particular AED used in this encounter, and the importance of community and
organizational policies to encourage the correct application of AEDs.

PMID: 25664915  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


610. J Neurol. 2015 Feb 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of MSA: boundary issues.

Kim HJ(1), Jeon BS, Jellinger KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Movement Disorder Center, Parkinson study group,
and Neuroscience Research Institute, College of Medicine, Seoul National
University, Seoul, Korea.

Because the progression of multiple system atrophy (MSA) is usually rapid and
there still is no effective cause-related therapy, early and accurate diagnosis
is important for the proper management of patients as well as the development of 
neuroprotective agents. However, despite the progression in the field of MSA
research in the past few years, the diagnosis of MSA in clinical practice still
relies largely on clinical features and there are limitations in terms of
sensitivity and specificity, especially in the early course of the disease.
Furthermore, recent pathological, clinical, and neuroimaging studies have shown
that (1) MSA can present with a wider range of clinical and pathological features
than previously thought, including features considered atypical for MSA; thus,
MSA can be misdiagnosed as other diseases, and conversely, disorders with other
etiologies and pathologies can be clinically misdiagnosed as MSA; and (2) several
investigations may help to improve the diagnosis of MSA in clinical practice.
These aspects should be taken into consideration when revising the current
diagnostic criteria. This is especially true given that disease-modifying
treatments for MSA are under investigation.

PMID: 25663409  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


611. Neurology. 2015 Mar 10;84(10):972-80. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001332. Epub
2015 Feb 6.

PARK10 is a major locus for sporadic neuropathologically confirmed Parkinson
disease.

Beecham GW(1), Dickson DW(1), Scott WK(1), Martin ER(1), Schellenberg G(1),
Nuytemans K(1), Larson EB(1), Buxbaum JD(1), Trojanowski JQ(1), Van Deerlin
VM(1), Hurtig HI(1), Mash DC(1), Beach TG(1), Troncoso JC(1), Pletnikova O(1),
Frosch MP(1), Ghetti B(1), Foroud TM(1), Honig LS(1), Marder K(1), Vonsattel
JP(1), Goldman SM(1), Vinters HV(1), Ross OA(1), Wszolek ZK(1), Wang L(1),
Dykxhoorn DM(1), Pericak-Vance MA(1), Montine TJ(1), Leverenz JB(1), Dawson
TM(1), Vance JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics (G.W.B., W.K.S., E.R.M.,
K.N., L.W., D.M.D., M.A.P.-V., J.M.V.) and University of Miami Brain Endowment
Bank (D.C.M.), Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, FL; Departments of
Neuroscience (D.W.D., O.A.R.) and Neurology (Z.K.W.), Mayo Clinic Florida,
Jacksonville; Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine (G.S., J.Q.T.,
V.M.V.D., H.I.H.), Perelman School of Medicine, Center for Neurodegenerative
Disease Research, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; Group Health Research
Institute (E.B.L.), Seattle, WA; Departments of Psychiatry, and Genetics and
Genomic Sciences (J.D.B.), Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY; Arizona 
Alzheimer's Consortium (T.G.B.), Phoenix; Sun Health Research Institute (T.G.B.),
Sun City, AZ; Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology (J.C.T., O.P.),
and Department of Neurology and the Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience 
(T.M.D.), Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD; Kubik
Laboratory for Neuropathology (M.P.F.), Massachusetts General Hospital and
Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA; Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, Indiana Alzheimer Disease Center (B.G.), and Department of Medical and 
Molecular Genetics (T.M.F.), Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis;
Departments of Neurology (L.S.H., K.M.) and Psychiatry (K.M.), Gertrude H.
Sergievsky Center, and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, New York; Department of Pathology and Cell Biology (J.P.V.), Taub
Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, New York, NY; 
The Parkinson's Institute (S.M.G.), Sunnyvale, CA; Departments of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine (Neuropathology) and Neurology (H.V.V.), David Geffen School 
of Medicine at University of California Los Angeles; Department of Pathology
(T.J.M.), University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle; VA Puget Sound
Health Care System (

Comment in
    Neurology. 2015 Mar 10;84(10):966-7.

OBJECTIVE: To minimize pathologic heterogeneity in genetic studies of Parkinson
disease (PD), the Autopsy-Confirmed Parkinson Disease Genetics Consortium
conducted a genome-wide association study using both patients with
neuropathologically confirmed PD and controls.
METHODS: Four hundred eighty-four cases and 1,145 controls met neuropathologic
diagnostic criteria, were genotyped, and then imputed to 3,922,209 variants for
genome-wide association study analysis.
RESULTS: A small region on chromosome 1 was strongly associated with PD
(rs10788972; p = 6.2 × 10(-8)). The association peak lies within and very close
to the maximum linkage peaks of 2 prior positive linkage studies defining the
PARK10 locus. We demonstrate that rs10788972 is in strong linkage disequilibrium 
with rs914722, the single nucleotide polymorphism defining the PARK10 haplotype
previously shown to be significantly associated with age at onset in PD. The
region containing the PARK10 locus was significantly reduced from 10.6 megabases 
to 100 kilobases and contains 4 known genes: TCEANC2, TMEM59, miR-4781, and
LDLRAD1.
CONCLUSIONS: We confirm the association of a PARK10 haplotype with the risk of
developing idiopathic PD. Furthermore, we significantly reduce the size of the
PARK10 region. None of the candidate genes in the new PARK10 region have been
previously implicated in the biology of PD, suggesting new areas of potential
research. This study strongly suggests that reducing pathologic heterogeneity may
enhance the application of genetic association studies to PD.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4352096 [Available on 2016-03-10]
PMID: 25663231  [PubMed - in process]


612. Neurology. 2015 Mar 10;84(10):966-7. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001345. Epub 2015
Feb 6.

Parkinson disease GWAS: the question of lumping or splitting is back again.

Simón-Sánchez J(1), Gasser T(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Genetics and Epigenetics of Neurodegeneration (J.S.-S.) and Department of
Neurodegenerative Diseases (T.G.), Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 
University of Tübingen; and German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases
(J.S.-S., T.G.), Tübingen, Germany. (2)From Genetics and Epigenetics of
Neurodegeneration (J.S.-S.) and Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases (T.G.), 
Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of Tübingen; and German 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (J.S.-S., T.G.), Tübingen, Germany.
thomas.gasser@med.uni-tuebingen.de.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2015 Mar 10;84(10):972-80.

PMID: 25663226  [PubMed - in process]


613. Neurology. 2015 Mar 3;84(9):888-94. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001308. Epub 2015 
Feb 6.

Parkinson disease with REM sleep behavior disorder: features, α-synuclein, and
inflammation.

Hu Y(1), Yu SY(1), Zuo LJ(1), Cao CJ(1), Wang F(1), Chen ZJ(1), Du Y(1), Lian
TH(1), Wang YJ(1), Chan P(1), Chen SD(1), Wang XM(1), Zhang W(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Neurology (Y.H., S.-Y.Y., L.-J.Z., C.-J.C., F.W.,
Z.-J.C., Y.D., T.-H.L., W.Z.) and Geriatrics (S.-Y.Y., W.Z.), and Core Laboratory
for Clinical Medical Research (Y.-J.W.), Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital
Medical University, Beijing; China National Clinical Research Center for
Neurological Diseases (W.Z., P.C., S.-D.C., X.-M.W.), Beijing; Center of
Parkinson's Disease (W.Z., P.C., S.-D.C., X.-M.W.), Beijing Institute for Brain
Disorders; Beijing Key Laboratory on Parkinson Disease (W.Z., P.C., S.-D.C.,
X.-M.W.); Department of Neurology and Neurobiology (P.C.), Beijing Institute of
Geriatrics, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, Beijing; Department of
Neurology (S.-D.C.), Ruijin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University
School of Medicine, Shanghai; and Department of Physiology (X.-M.W.), Capital
Medical University, Beijing, China. (2)From the Departments of Neurology (Y.H.,
S.-Y.Y., L.-J.Z., C.-J.C., F.W., Z.-J.C., Y.D., T.-H.L., W.Z.) and Geriatrics
(S.-Y.Y., W.Z.), and Core Laboratory for Clinical Medical Research (Y.-J.W.),
Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing; China National
Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases (W.Z., P.C., S.-D.C.,
X.-M.W.), Beijing; Center of Parkinson's Disease (W.Z., P.C., S.-D.C., X.-M.W.), 
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders; Beijing Key Laboratory on Parkinson
Disease (W.Z., P.C., S.-D.C., X.-M.W.); Department of Neurology and Neurobiology 
(P.C.), Beijing Institute of Geriatrics, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing; Department of Neurology (S.-D.C.), Ruijin Hospital
Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai; and
Department of Physiology (X.-M.W.), Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
ttyyzw@163.com.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate clinical features and potential mechanisms involving
α-synuclein oligomer and inflammation in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) and
probable REM sleep behavior disorder (PRBD).
METHODS: We used the REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Screening Questionnaire (RBDSQ) 
to evaluate patients with PD and classified each as PRBD or not probable (NPRBD).
Data collection included demographic information and evaluation of clinical
symptoms using a series of rating scales. We tested for α-synuclein oligomer and 
inflammatory factors in CSF and serum. Data analyses included comparisons between
PRBD and NPRBD groups and correlation analyses among RBDSQ score and levels of
the above factors.
RESULTS: The frequency of PRBD in patients with PD was 30.67%. The PRBD group had
longer disease duration, more advanced disease stage, more severe motor symptoms,
and other more severe nonmotor symptoms, including depression, anxiety, and
fatigue. Levels of α-synuclein oligomer in CSF and serum in the PRBD group were
elevated compared with NPRBD and control groups. RBDSQ score was increased with
the elevated α-synuclein oligomer level in CSF, interleukin 1β and nitric oxide
levels in CSF, and prostaglandin E2 level in serum in the PD group. The level of 
α-synuclein oligomer in CSF was enhanced with the deterioration of motor
symptoms, and the elevated levels of interleukin 1β, nitric oxide, and tumor
necrosis factor α in CSF in the PRBD group.
CONCLUSIONS: PRBD is common in patients with PD, especially those with longer
disease duration and more severe motor and nonmotor symptoms. Elevated
α-synuclein levels in CSF and serum may be correlated with PRBD through
inflammation in central and peripheral nervous systems.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25663225  [PubMed - in process]


614. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Feb 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical Parameters and Tools for Home-Based Assessment of Parkinson's Disease:
Results from a Delphi study.

Ferreira JJ(1), Santos AT(2), Domingos J(2), Matthews H(3), Isaacs T(3), Duffen
J(3), Al-Jawad A(4), Larsen F(5), Serrano A(5), Weber P(6), Thoms A(6), Sollinger
S(7), Graessner H(8), Maetzler W(9).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Lisbon, Portugal 
Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Lisbon, Portugal. (2)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Instituto de
Medicina Molecular, Lisbon, Portugal. (3)The Cure Parkinson's Trust, London, UK. 
(4)HSG-IMIT, Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany. (5)Norwegian Centre for
Telemedicine, Tromso, Norway. (6)Hasomed GmbH, Magdeburg, Germany. (7)AbilityNet,
London, UK. (8)Institute for Medical Genetics and Applied Genomics, University of
Tübingen, Germany. (9)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of
Neurodegeneration, Center of Neurology, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen,
Germany.

Background: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with
fluctuating symptoms. To aid the development of a system to evaluate people with 
PD (PwP's) at home (SENSE-PARK system) there was a need to define parameters and 
tools to be applied in the assessment of 6 domains: gait,
bradykinesia/hypokinesia, tremor, sleep, balance and cognition. Objective: To
identify relevant parameters and assessment tools of the 6 domains, from the
perspective of people with Parkinson's Disease, caregivers and movement disorders
specialists. Methods: A 2-round Delphi study was conducted to select a core of
parameters and assessment tools to be applied. This process included people with 
Parkinson's Disease, caregivers and movement disorders specialists. Results: Two 
hundred and thirty-three people with Parkinson's Disease, caregivers and
physicians completed the first round questionnaire, and 50 the second. Results
allowed the identification of parameters and assessment tools to be added to the 
SENSE-PARK system. The most consensual parameters were: Falls and Near Falls;
Capability to Perform Activities of Daily Living; Interference with Activities of
Daily Living; Capability to Process Tasks; and Capability to Recall and Retrieve 
Information. The most cited assessment strategies included Walkers; the
Evaluation of Performance Doing Fine Motor Movements; Capability to Eat;
Assessment of Sleep Quality; Identification of Circumstances and Triggers for
Loose of Balance and Memory Assessment. Conclusions: An agreed set of measuring
parameters, tests, tools and devices was achieved to be part of a system to
evaluate people with Parkinson's Disease at home. A pattern of different
perspectives was identified for each stakeholder.

PMID: 25663101  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


615. Rev Cardiovasc Med. 2014;15(4):283-9.

Noninvasive risk stratification for sudden death in asymptomatic patients with
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.

Novella J, DeBiasi RM(1), Coplan NL, Suri R, Keller S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, New Haven, CT.
(2)Lenox Hill Hospital, New York, NY.

Sudden cardiac death (SCD) as the first clinical manifestation of
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a well-documented, although rare
occurrence. The incidence of SCD in patients with WPW ranges from 0% to 0.39%
annually. Controversy exists regarding risk stratification for patients with
preexcitation on surface electrocardiogram (ECG), particularly in those who are
asymptomatic. This article focuses on the role of risk stratification using
exercise and pharmacologic testing in patients with WPW pattern on ECG.

PMID: 25662922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


616. J Neurosci Methods. 2015 Mar 30;243:68-77. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2015.01.027.
Epub 2015 Feb 4.

X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X-SCID) rats for xeno-transplantation 
and behavioral evaluation.

Samata B(1), Kikuchi T(1), Miyawaki Y(1), Morizane A(1), Mashimo T(2), Nakagawa
M(3), Okita K(3), Takahashi J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Application, Center for iPS Cell Research and
Application, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan. (2)Institute of Laboratory Animals, 
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan. (3)Department of
Reprogramming Science, Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto
University, Kyoto, Japan. (4)Department of Clinical Application, Center for iPS
Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan; Department of
Biological Repair, Institute for Frontier Medical Sciences, Kyoto University,
Kyoto, Japan; Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Neuroscience, Kyoto University
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. Electronic address:
jbtaka@cira.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the in vivo function of human dopaminergic (DA) neurons, 
Parkinson's disease (PD) model rats made by the hemi-lateral injection of
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) are widely used as host animals. In the case of such
xeno-transplantation, however, immunosuppression is needed for good survival of
the grafted cells.
NEW METHODS: In order to determine whether human mature neurons can survive in
X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X-SCID) rats without
immunosuppression, we grafted human embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived DA neurons 
into the striatum of X-SCID rats. We next treated the X-SCID rats with 6-OHDA and
grafted mouse fetal DA neurons or human induced pluripotent stem cell
(iPSC)-derived DA neurons to examine whether these rats can be used as PD model
rats.
RESULTS: X-SCID rats did not elicit immune responses against human ESC-derived DA
neurons and consequently resulted in good survival of the cells without
immunosuppression. Furthermore, 6-OHDA-lesioned X-SCID rats exhibited rotational 
behavior, which was recovered by grafting mouse fetal DA neurons or human
iPSC-derived DA neurons.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: Immunosuppression by drugs such as Cyclosporine
A requires daily injection, which is stressful for rats and moreover may cause
renal or hepatic failure. Furthermore, blood levels of the drug may not be
stable, which weakens the reliability of the data.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide a more accessible and reliable method to
evaluate the in vivo function of human DA neurons, potentially offering a
pre-clinical study for the application of pluripotent stem cells.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25662444  [PubMed - in process]


617. J Vasc Surg. 2015 Feb 7. pii: S0741-5214(14)01905-3. doi:
10.1016/j.jvs.2014.10.023. [Epub ahead of print]

Rupture rates of untreated large abdominal aortic aneurysms in patients unfit for
elective repair.

Parkinson F(1), Ferguson S(1), Lewis P(1), Williams IM(2), Twine CP(3); South
East Wales Vascular Network.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Royal Gwent Hospital, Newport, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, United 
Kingdom. (3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Royal Gwent Hospital, Newport, United
Kingdom. Electronic address: christopher.twine@wales.nhs.uk.

BACKGROUND: Elective abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) surgery relies on balancing 
the risk of the intervention against the risk of the aneurysm causing death.
Although much is known about intervention at 5.5 cm, little is known about the
fate of the patient unfit for elective surgery at this threshold. Medical therapy
and endovascular surgery have revolutionized management of aortic aneurysms in
the last 20 years and are thought to have affected rupture rates.
METHODS: MEDLINE via PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library Database were
searched for studies reporting follow-up of untreated large AAA approach from
inception to January 2014. Data were pooled using random-effects analysis with
standardized mean differences and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) reported. The
primary end points were rupture rates and all-cause mortality per year by AAA
size.
RESULTS: The search strategy identified 1892 citations, of which 11 studies
comprising 1514 patients experiencing 347 ruptured AAA were included. The overall
incidence of ruptured AAA in patients with AAA >5.5 cm was 5.3% (95% CI,
3.1%-7.5%) per year. This represented cumulative yearly rupture rates of 3.5%
(95% CI, -1.6% to 8.7%) in AAAs 5.5 to 6.0 cm, 4.1% (95% CI, -0.7% to 9.0%) in
AAAs 6.1 to 7.0 cm, and 6.3% (95% CI, -1.8% to 14.3%) in AAAs >7.0 cm. There was 
no heterogeneity between studies (I(2) = 0%). Only 32% of these patients were
offered repair on rupturing an AAA, with a perioperative mortality of 58% (95%
CI, 32%-83%). The risk of death from causes other than AAA was higher than the
risk of death from rupture.
CONCLUSIONS: Rupture rates of untreated AAA were lower than those currently
quoted in the literature. Non-AAA-related mortality in this group of patients is 
high.

Copyright © 2015 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25661721  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


618. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Jun;93:68-79. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.01.024. Epub
2015 Feb 7.

Activation of serotonin2C receptors in the lateral habenular nucleus increases
the expression of depression-related behaviors in the hemiparkinsonian rat.

Han LN(1), Zhang L(1), Li LB(2), Sun YN(1), Wang Y(1), Chen L(1), Guo Y(1), Zhang
YM(1), Zhang QJ(2), Liu J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, China. (2)Department of Rehabilitation
Medicine, the Second Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710004, China.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, China. Electronic address:
liujian@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

The roles of lateral habenular nucleus (LHb) glutamate neurons and serotonin2C
(5-HT2C) receptors in depression are poorly understood, particularly in
Parkinson's disease-associated depression. Here we assessed the importance of LHb
glutamate neurons and 5-HT2C receptors for depressive-like behaviors in
sham-operated rats and rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the
substantia nigra. The lesion induced depressive-like responses compared to
sham-operated rats. Intra-LHb injection of potent, selective 5-HT2C receptor
agonist Ro60-0175 decreased sucrose consumption and increased immobility time in 
sham-operated rats, indicating the induction of depressive-like responses, and
intra-LHb injection of Ro60-0175 further increased the expression of
depressive-like behaviors in the lesioned rats. Activation of LHb 5-HT2C
receptors by the local administration of Ro60-0175 increased the firing rate of
EAAC1 (a neuronal glutamate transporter)-positive neurons and percentage of the
neurons with burst-firing pattern in the two groups of rats. Compared to
sham-operated rats, the duration of Ro60-0175 action on the firing rate of
EAAC1-positive neurons was markedly prolonged in the lesioned rats. Intra-LHb
injection of Ro60-0175 decreased dopamine, 5-HT and noradrenaline levels in the
medial prefrontal cortex, habenula, hippocampus and amygdala in sham-operated and
the lesioned rats. The lesion did not change the percentage of EAAC1/5-HT2C
receptor co-expressing neurons in the LHb. These findings indicate that
activation of 5-HT2C receptors in the LHb increases firing activity of LHb
glutamate neurons and then decreases monoamine levels in several brain regions,
which increase the expression of depressive-like behaviors. Further, our results 
also suggest that the lesion leads to hyperfunctionality of 5-HT2C receptors on
glutamate neurons of the LHb.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661701  [PubMed - in process]


619. Neurochem Int. 2015 Mar;82:10-18. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2015.01.008. Epub 2015
Feb 7.

Glutathione transferases and neurodegenerative diseases.

Mazzetti AP(1), Fiorile MC(1), Primavera A(1), Lo Bello M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. Electronic
address: lobello@uniroma2.it.

There is substantial agreement that the unbalance between oxidant and antioxidant
species may affect the onset and/or the course of a number of common diseases
including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Many studies suggest a crucial
role for oxidative stress in the first phase of aging, or in the pathogenesis of 
various diseases including neurological ones. Particularly, the role exerted by
glutathione and glutathione-related enzymes (Glutathione Transferases) in the
nervous system appears more relevant, this latter tissue being much more
vulnerable to toxins and oxidative stress than other tissues such as liver,
kidney or muscle. The present review addresses the question by focusing on the
results obtained by specimens from patients or by in vitro studies using cells or
animal models related to Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. In general, there 
is an association between glutathione depletion and Parkinson's or Alzheimer's
disease. In addition, a significant decrease of glutathione transferase activity 
in selected areas of brain and in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid was found. For 
some glutathione transferase genes there is also a correlation between
polymorphisms and onset/outcome of neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, there is a
general agreement about the protective effect exerted by glutathione and
glutathione transferases but no clear answer about the mechanisms underlying this
crucial role in the insurgence of neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661512  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


620. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Apr;76:67-76. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.01.003. Epub 2015 Feb
4.

Enhanced histamine H2 excitation of striatal cholinergic interneurons in
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

Lim SA(1), Xia R(2), Ding Y(3), Won L(2), Ray WJ(4), Hitchcock SA(4), McGehee
DS(5), Kang UJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA;
Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. (4)Envoy
Therapeutics, Inc., Jupiter, FL 33458, USA. (5)Committee on Neurobiology,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA; Department of Anesthesia &
Critical Care, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. Electronic address:
dmcgehee@uchicago.edu. (6)Committee on Neurobiology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL 60637, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL 60637, USA; Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, 
USA. Electronic address: ujk2101@cumc.columbia.edu.

Levodopa is the most effective therapy for the motor deficits of Parkinson's
disease (PD), but long term treatment leads to the development of l-DOPA-induced 
dyskinesia (LID). Our previous studies indicate enhanced excitability of striatal
cholinergic interneurons (ChIs) in mice expressing LID and reduction of LID when 
ChIs are selectively ablated. Recent gene expression analysis indicates that
stimulatory H2 histamine receptors are preferentially expressed on ChIs at high
levels in the striatum, and we tested whether a change in H2 receptor function
might contribute to the elevated excitability in LID. Using two different mouse
models of PD (6-hydroxydopamine lesion and Pitx3(ak/ak) mutation), we chronically
treated the animals with either vehicle or l-DOPA to induce dyskinesia.
Electrophysiological recordings indicate that histamine H2 receptor-mediated
excitation of striatal ChIs is enhanced in mice expressing LID. Additionally, H2 
receptor blockade by systemic administration of famotidine decreases behavioral
LID expression in dyskinetic animals. These findings suggest that ChIs undergo a 
pathological change in LID with respect to histaminergic neurotransmission. The
hypercholinergic striatum associated with LID may be dampened by inhibition of H2
histaminergic neurotransmission. This study also provides a proof of principle of
utilizing selective gene expression data for cell-type-specific modulation of
neuronal activity.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25661301  [PubMed - in process]


621. Clin Nutr. 2014 Dec 23. pii: S0261-5614(14)00305-7. doi:
10.1016/j.clnu.2014.12.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Amino acid supplementation in l-dopa treated Parkinson's disease patients.

Cucca A(1), Mazzucco S(2), Bursomanno A(3), Antonutti L(3), Di Girolamo FG(2),
Pizzolato G(3), Koscica N(3), Gigli GL(1), Catalan M(3), Biolo G(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Udine, Clinica Neurologica, Department of Experimental and
Clinical Medical Sciences, Italy. (2)University of Trieste, Clinica Medica,
Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, Italy. (3)University of
Trieste, Clinica Neurologica, Department of Medical, Surgical and Health
Sciences, Italy. (4)University of Trieste, Clinica Medica, Department of Medical,
Surgical and Health Sciences, Italy. Electronic address: biolo@units.it.

BACKGROUND: The correlation between Parkinson disease and malnutrition is well
established, however a protein-restricted diet is usually prescribed because of
potentially negative interactions between dietary amino acids and l-dopa
pharmacokinetics. This strategy could increase the risk of further nutritional
deficits.
METHODS: A monocentric, prospective, randomized, double-blind pilot study was
performed on two groups of Parkinson-affected, protein-restricted, patients:
Intervention (n = 7; amino acid supplementation twice daily) and Placebo (n = 7; 
placebo supplementation twice daily). At enrolment, after 3- and 6-month
supplementation, neurological evaluations (UPDRS III, Hoenh-Yahr scale, l-dopa
equivalent dose assessment) were performed and blood sample was collected to
define insulin sensitivity (QUICKI index) and oxidative stress (oxidized and
reduced glutathione). Repeated measure ANCOVA was applied to define time effect
and time × treatment interaction.
RESULTS: Participants were comparable at baseline for all assessed parameters.
Neurological outcomes and l-dopa requirement were comparable in both group after 
6-month of supplementation, without time × treatment interaction. The decrease in
insulin sensitivity, as assessed by QUICKI index, observed after 6 months in both
groups, was greater in Placebo than in Intervention (time effect p < 0.001;
time × treatment interaction p = 0.01). Moreover, despite no changes in total
erythrocyte glutathione concentrations, oxidized glutathione levels decreased by 
28 ± 17% in the Intervention while increased by 55 ± 38% in Placebo (time effect 
p = 0.05; time × treatment interaction p = 0.05), after 6-month supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Amino acid supplementation, assumed with shrewd temporal
distribution, did not show detrimental effects on neurological and
pharmacological control in protein-restricted Parkinson-affected patients,
chronically treated with l-dopa. Furthermore, daily amino acid supplementation
partially counteracted insulin resistance development and the loss in antioxidant
availability.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25660414  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


622. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Mar;36(3):1559-68. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.01.014. Epub 2015 Jan 21.

FK506 reduces neuroinflammation and dopaminergic neurodegeneration in an
α-synuclein-based rat model for Parkinson's disease.

Van der Perren A(1), Macchi F(1), Toelen J(2), Carlon MS(2), Maris M(2), de Loor 
H(3), Kuypers DR(3), Gijsbers R(4), Van den Haute C(5), Debyser Z(4), Baekelandt 
V(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurobiology and Gene Therapy, Department of Neurosciences, KU 
Leuven, Flanders, Belgium. (2)Molecular Virology and Gene Therapy, Department of 
Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium.
(3)Division of Nephrology and Renal Transplantation, Department of Microbiology
and Immunology, Leuven University Hospital and KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Molecular Virology and Gene Therapy, Department of Pharmaceutical and
Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium; Leuven Viral Vector Core,
KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (5)Laboratory for Neurobiology and Gene Therapy,
Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium; Leuven Viral Vector
Core, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (6)Laboratory for Neurobiology and Gene
Therapy, Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium; Leuven Viral 
Vector Core, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address:
Veerle.Baekelandt@med.kuleuven.be.

Alpha-synuclein (α-synuclein) is considered a key player in Parkinson's disease
(PD), but the exact relationship between α-synuclein aggregation and dopaminergic
neurodegeneration remains unresolved. There is increasing evidence that
neuroinflammatory processes are closely linked to dopaminergic cell death, but
whether the inflammatory process is causally involved in PD or rather reflects
secondary consequences of nigrostriatal pathway injury is still under debate. We 
evaluated the therapeutic effect of the immunophilin ligand FK506 in a rAAV2/7
α-synuclein overexpression rat model. Treatment with FK506 significantly
increased the survival of dopaminergic neurons in a dose-dependent manner. No
reduction in α-synuclein aggregation was apparent in this time window, but FK506 
significantly lowered the infiltration of both T helper and cytotoxic T cells and
the number and subtype of microglia and macrophages. These data suggest that the 
anti-inflammatory properties of FK506 decrease neurodegeneration in this
α-synuclein-based PD model, pointing to a causal role of neuroinflammation in the
pathogenesis of PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25660193  [PubMed - in process]


623. Neurologia. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S0213-4853(14)00264-3. doi:
10.1016/j.nrl.2014.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Speech rate in Parkinson's disease: A controlled study.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Martínez-Sánchez F(1), Meilán JJ(2), Carro J(2), Gómez Íñiguez C(3),
Millian-Morell L(4), Pujante Valverde IM(5), López-Alburquerque T(4), López
DE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad de Murcia, Murcia, España. Electronic
address: franms@um.es. (2)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad de Salamanca,
Salamanca, España; Instituto de Neurociencias de Castilla y León, INCYL, España. 
(3)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Jaume I de Castellón, Castellón, España.
(4)Instituto de Neurociencias de Castilla y León, INCYL, España. (5)Facultad de
Psicología, Universidad de Murcia, Murcia, España.

INTRODUCTION: Speech disturbances will affect most patients with Parkinson's
disease (PD) over the course of the disease. The origin and severity of these
symptoms are of clinical and diagnostic interest.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical pattern of speech impairment in PD patients and
identify significant differences in speech rate and articulation compared to
control subjects. Speech rate and articulation in a reading task were measured
using an automatic analytical method.
PATIENTS: A total of 39 PD patients in the 'on' state and 45 age-and sex-matched 
asymptomatic controls participated in the study. None of the patients experienced
dyskinesias or motor fluctuations during the test.
RESULTS: The patients with PD displayed a significant reduction in speech and
articulation rates; there were no significant correlations between the studied
speech parameters and patient characteristics such as L-dopa dose, duration of
the disorder, age, and UPDRS III scores and Hoehn & Yahr scales.
CONCLUSION: Patients with PD show a characteristic pattern of declining speech
rate. These results suggest that in PD, disfluencies are the result of the
movement disorder affecting the physiology of speech production systems.

Copyright © 2014 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier Espana.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25660139  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


624. Br J Neurosurg. 2015 Feb 7:1-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Occipital-device-related pain as a complication of deep brain stimulation.

Yin S(1), Jin W, De Salles A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, California, and VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System
, Los Angeles, California , USA.

Deep brain stimulation is an established treatment for movement disorders. We
reported 4 patients (1.3%) of post-operative occipital headache related to the
placement of the connection among 309 patients from 1998 to 2008. The patients
were treated successfully by repositioning the connector into a groove created in
the bone.

PMID: 25659960  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


625. J Mol Biol. 2015 Mar 27;427(6 Pt B):1428-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2015.01.020. Epub
2015 Feb 4.

Single fibril growth kinetics of α-synuclein.

Wördehoff MM(1), Bannach O(2), Shaykhalishahi H(1), Kulawik A(2), Schiefer S(1), 
Willbold D(2), Hoyer W(2), Birkmann E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physikalische Biologie, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf,
Universitätsstraße 1, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. (2)Institut für Physikalische
Biologie, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Universitätsstraße 1, 40225
Düsseldorf, Germany; Institute of Complex Systems (ICS-6), Research Centre
Jülich, Wilhelm-Johnen-Straße, 52428 Jülich, Germany.

Neurodegenerative disorders associated with protein misfolding are fatal diseases
that are caused by fibrillation of endogenous proteins such as α-synuclein
(α-syn) in Parkinson's disease (PD) or amyloid-β in Alzheimer's disease. Fibrils 
of α-syn are a major pathological hallmark of PD and certain aggregation
intermediates are postulated to cause synaptic failure and cell death of
dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. For the development of therapeutic 
approaches, the mechanistic understanding of the fibrillation process is
essential. Here we report real-time observation of α-syn fibril elongation on a
glass surface, imaged by total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy using 
thioflavin T fluorescence. Fibrillation on the glass surface occurred in the same
time frame and yielded fibrils of similar length as fibrillation in solution.
Time-resolved imaging of fibrillation on a single fibril level indicated that
α-syn fibril elongation follows a stop-and-go mechanism; that is, fibrils either 
extend at a homogenous growth rate or stop to grow for variable time intervals.
The fibril growth kinetics were compatible with a model featuring two states, a
growth state and a stop state, which were approximately isoenergetic and
interconverted with rate constants of ~1.5×10(-4) s(-1). In the growth state,
α-syn monomers were incorporated into the fibril with a rate constant of
8.6×10(3) M(-1) s(-1). Fibril elongation of α-syn is slow compared to other
amyloidogenic proteins.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659910  [PubMed - in process]


626. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2015;93(1):68. doi: 10.1159/000368910. Epub 2015 Jan 
31.

Stereotactic robotic application accuracy is very high in 'in vivo' procedures.

Cardinale F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Claudio Munari Center for Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery, Niguarda Hospital,
Milan, Italy.

Comment on
    Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2014;92(4):242-50.

PMID: 25659811  [PubMed - in process]


627. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015 Feb;90(2):e11-5. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2014.05.023.

81-year-old woman with left hip pain.

Moma CT(1), Dawson NL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Resident in Internal Medicine, Mayo School of Graduate Medical Education, Mayo
Clinic, Jacksonville, FL. (2)Advisor to resident and Consultant in Hospital
Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL. Electronic address:
dawson.nancy@mayo.edu.

PMID: 25659249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Curr Top Med Chem. 2015;15(5):432-45.

Oxidative stress and neurodegenerative diseases: looking for a therapeutic
solution inspired on benzopyran chemistry.

Gaspar A, Milhazes N, Santana L, Uriarte E, Borges F, Matos MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)CIQUP/Departamento de Quimica e Bioquimica, Faculdade de Ciencias,
Universidade do Porto, Porto 4169-007, Portugal. mariacmatos@gmail.com.

Reactive species are continuously produced in vivo by all body tissues. However, 
when an imbalance between the reactive species production and the endogenous pool
of antioxidants occurs, the resulting oxidative stress can somehow intensify the 
pathophysiological mechanisms of several diseases, such as neurodegenerative
diseases. Although the aetiology of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases is not
yet completely understood, it is accepted by the scientific community that the
oxidative stress can act as a trigger or can be involved in the course of both
diseases. Therefore, the development of an antioxidant-based therapy could be a
helpful approach to ameliorate the deleterious effects of oxidative stress in
neurodegenerative diseases. Coumarins and chromones are natural or synthetic
chemical entities described as privileged structures with diverse biological
activities that have been used to design new drugs with potential anti-Alzheimer 
and anti-Parkinson profiles. Since some of these compounds also displayed potent 
antioxidant activity, the rationale approach to developing new drugs based on the
benzopyran scaffold, as therapeutic alternatives for neurodegenerative diseases, 
is a valid and compelling topic. This review provides a medicinal chemistry
overview on the discovery and development of benzopyran-based compounds endowed
with antioxidant, neuroprotective and anti-Alzheimer or anti-Parkinson
activities.

PMID: 25658803  [PubMed - in process]


629. Clin Neuropsychol. 2015;29(1):166-78. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2015.1005674. Epub
2015 Feb 6.

Neuropsychological findings in a case of punding before and after cessation of
pramipexole.

Larson ER(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Clement J. Zablocki VA Medical Center, Division of Mental Health , Milwaukee
, WI 53295 , USA.

Clinical neuropsychologists are well trained to recognize neurological and
psychiatric conditions that impact behavior, but tend to have less familiarity
with iatrogenic consequences of various pharmacological treatments. One such
consequence is the development of an impulse control disorder (ICD), which can
result from treatment with dopamine agonists. Knowledge of ICDs is important
because they can mimic obsessive-compulsive disorder, mania, or the behavioral
variant of frontotemporal dementia. The current case examines a patient who
developed punding, which is a type of ICD characterized by repetitive behavior,
as a result of treatment with pramipexole. Neuropsychological testing was
conducted before and after cessation of pramipexole, and showed that the removal 
of the medication was consistent with improvement in frontal-subcortical-mediated
cognitive functions. Findings suggest that neuropsychologists should be familiar 
with the symptoms of ICDs and incorporate such knowledge into their case
conceptualizations.

PMID: 25658417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Biol Chem. 2015 Apr 10;290(15):9412-27. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.610774. Epub 2015
Feb 5.

Parkinson Disease Mutant E46K Enhances α-Synuclein Phosphorylation in Mammalian
Cell Lines, in Yeast, and in Vivo.

Mbefo MK(1), Fares MB(1), Paleologou K(1), Oueslati A(1), Yin G(2), Tenreiro
S(3), Pinto M(3), Outeiro T(4), Zweckstetter M(5), Masliah E(6), Lashuel HA(7).

Author information: 
(1)From the Laboratory of Molecular and Chemical Biology of Neurodegeneration,
Brain Mind Institute, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne, Station 15, 1015 
Lausanne, Switzerland. (2)the Department of NMR-based Structural Biology, Max
Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen,
Germany. (3)the Cell and Molecular Neuroscience Unit, Instituto de Medicina
Molecular, and. (4)the Cell and Molecular Neuroscience Unit, Instituto de
Medicina Molecular, and Instituto de Fisiologia, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Lisboa, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal, the
Department of NeuroDegeneration and Restorative Research, University Medical
Center Goettingen and. (5)the Department of NMR-based Structural Biology, Max
Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen,
Germany, the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 
Göttingen, Germany, and. (6)the Departments of Pathology and Neurosciences,
School of Medicine, University of California at San Diego, San Diego, California 
92103. (7)From the Laboratory of Molecular and Chemical Biology of
Neurodegeneration, Brain Mind Institute, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de
Lausanne, Station 15, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland, hilal.lashuel@epfl.ch.

Although α-synuclein (α-syn) phosphorylation has been considered as a hallmark of
sporadic and familial Parkinson disease (PD), little is known about the effect of
PD-linked mutations on α-syn phosphorylation. In this study, we investigated the 
effects of the A30P, E46K, and A53T PD-linked mutations on α-syn phosphorylation 
at residues Ser-87 and Ser-129. Although the A30P and A53T mutants slightly
affected Ser(P)-129 levels compared with WT α-syn, the E46K mutation
significantly enhanced Ser-129 phosphorylation in yeast and mammalian cell lines.
This effect was not due to the E46K mutant being a better kinase substrate nor
due to alterations in endogenous kinase levels, but was mostly linked with
enhanced nuclear and endoplasmic reticulum accumulation. Importantly,
lentivirus-mediated overexpression in mice also showed enhanced Ser-129
phosphorylation of the E46K mutant compared to WT α-syn, thus providing in vivo
validation of our findings. Altogether, our findings suggest that the different
PD-linked mutations may contribute to PD pathogenesis via different mechanisms.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4392248 [Available on 2016-04-10]
PMID: 25657004  [PubMed - in process]


631. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2015 Feb 5. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12457. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence and treatment pattern of Parkinson's disease dementia in Korea.

Oh YS(1), Kim JS, Park IS, Shim YS, Song IU, Park JW, Lee PH, Lyoo CH, Ahn TB, Ma
HI, Kim YD, Koh SB, Lee SJ, Lee KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul, Korea.

AIM: The aim of the present study was to investigate the point prevalence of
dementia and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in patients with Parkinson's disease
(PD).
METHODS: A total of 1200 patients with PD from 12 hospitals were included in the 
study. All patients were grouped into normal cognition, MCI and dementia
subgroups. General cognitive status and dementia severity were assessed by the
Korean version of the Mini-Mental State Examination, Clinical Dementia Rating and
Global Deterioration Scale, and parkinsonian motor status was assessed by the
Hoehn and Yahr staging score. Associated sleep behaviors and other medical
conditions were checked. Prescribing patterns of antidementia medications were
analyzed.
RESULTS: Cognitive impairment was frequent in patients with PD; MCI was found in 
38.9% of patients, whereas dementia was in 38.3% of patients. The prevalence of
cognitive impairment increased with increasing age and longer disease duration,
and the symptoms of postural instability and symptoms mimicking rapid eye
movement sleep behavior disorder were associated with cognitive impairment. Many 
dementia patients (95.2%) and 23.6% of MCI patients were treated with
antidementia drugs, with rivastigmine the most frequently used.
CONCLUSION: The point prevalence of cognitive impairment in patients with PD was 
77.2%. Cognitive impairment was associated with age, disease duration and
specific parkinsonian motor/non-motor symptoms. Over 90% of the patients with
dementia were treated with antidementia medication, and rivastigmine was the most
frequently used for the management of dementia. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2015; ●●:
●●-●●.

© 2015 Japan Geriatrics Society.

PMID: 25656841  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


632. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2015 Mar;168(2):123-34. doi:
10.1002/ajmg.b.32288. Epub 2015 Feb 5.

Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) polymorphisms and susceptibility to Parkinson's disease: a
meta-analysis.

Han W(1), Liu Y, Mi Y, Zhao J, Liu D, Tian Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Statistics, School of Public Health, Hebei
Medical University, 361 East Zhongshan Road, Shijiazhuang, 050017, China.

It has been reported that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) are associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). Some
researchers have attempted to validate this finding in various ethnic
populations. The results of studies concerning SNCA polymorphisms and PD
susceptibility remain conflicting. To evaluate the association between these SNPs
and PD, the authors conducted a series of meta-analyses using a predefined
protocol. Databases including PubMed, MEDLINE and PD gene were searched to
identify relevant studies. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) 
were used to assess the strength of the association. All analyses were calculated
using STATA11.0. A total of 19 studies on the SNPS rs181489, rs356186, rs356219, 
rs894278, rs2583988, rs2619363, rs2619364, rs2737029, rs10005233 and rs11931074
were included. This meta-analysis showed that eight out of these 10 candidate
SNPs may be associated with PD risk. Significant association was found between PD
and the following SNPs: rs181489, rs356186, rs356219, rs894278 rs2583988,
rs2619364, rs10005233 and rs11931074. Among these SNPs, rs356186 was found to be 
the only SNP that may play a protective role in Parkinson's disease. These
results suggest that the SNCA gene may be associated with PD.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25656566  [PubMed - in process]


633. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Feb 15;349(1-2):214-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.01.022. Epub
2015 Jan 27.

Visual deprivation elicits subclinical postural inflexibilities in early
Parkinson's disease.

Panyakaew P(1), Anan C(1), Bhidayasiri R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chulalongkorn Center of Excellence on Parkinson Disease & Related Disorders,
Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University and King
Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Thai Red Cross Society, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.
(2)Chulalongkorn Center of Excellence on Parkinson Disease & Related Disorders,
Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University and King
Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Thai Red Cross Society, Bangkok 10330, Thailand;
Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles
90095, USA. Electronic address: rbh1@ucla.edu.

BACKGROUND: Postural instability is often experienced in the late stages of PD
and is a marker of disease progression. Little information is available on the
role of visual inputs as an adaptive strategy to compensate for postural
instability in PD. The purpose of this study was to determine visual dependency
for postural control in early PD.
METHODS: Thirty early PD subjects without postural complaints and 30 matched
controls were evaluated for subtle postural instability using static
posturography under eyes opened and eyes closed conditions.
RESULTS: No significant differences between groups were observed under eyes
opened condition. In eyes closed condition, there was significantly greater mean 
sway in the mediolateral direction (p=0.01), mean sway velocity (p=0.03), lateral
sway velocity (p=0.04), and sway area (p=0.04) in PD than in the control
subjects. 95% confidence ellipse of mean sway was largest in PD patients with
eyes closed. A strong and significant correlation was observed between disease
duration and mean mediolateral sway, sway area, mean sway and lateral sway
velocity, and a moderate correlation was shown between Hoehn & Yahr stage and
mean mediolateral sway, and sway area.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that visual dependency exists in early PD and
visual deprivation task can help identify subclinical postural instability.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25656100  [PubMed - in process]


634. Phys Ther. 2015 Feb 5. [Epub ahead of print]

Levels and Patterns of Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior in Elderly People
With Mild to Moderate Parkinson Disease.

Benka Wallén M(1), Franzén E(2), Nero H(3), Hagströmer M(4).

Author information: 
(1)M. Benka Wallén, PhD, RPT, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and
Society, Division of Physiotherapy, Karolinska Institutet, Alfred Nobels Alle 23,
141 83 Huddinge, Sweden. (2)E. Franzén, PhD, RPT, Department of Neurobiology,
Care Sciences and Society, Division of Physiotherapy, Karolinska Institutet, and 
Department of Physical Therapy, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm,
Sweden. (3)H. Nero, MSc, RPT, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and
Society, Division of Physiotherapy, Karolinska Institutet. (4)M. Hagströmer, PhD,
RPT, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of
Physiotherapy, Karolinska Institutet, and Department of Physical Therapy,
Karolinska University Hospital.

BACKGROUND: Decreased movement ability, one of the hallmarks of Parkinson disease
(PD), may lead to inadequate physical activity (PA) and excessive time spent in
sedentary behaviors-2 factors associated with an elevated risk for
lifestyle-related diseases, poor management of PD, and premature death. To
identify the extent to which people with PD are physically active, a
comprehensive characterization of PA in this population is needed.
OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to describe levels and patterns of PA and
sedentary behaviors in elderly people with PD.
DESIGN: This cross-sectional study involved a free-living setting and 53 men and 
42 women (mean age=73.4 years) with mild to moderate idiopathic PD.
METHODS: Time spent in PA and sedentary behaviors was assessed for 1 week with
accelerometers.
RESULTS: Mean daily step counts were 4,765; participants spent 589 minutes in
sedentary behaviors, 141 minutes in low-intensity activities, 30 minutes in
moderate-intensity lifestyle activities, and 16 minutes in moderate- to
vigorous-intensity ambulatory activities. No differences were found between
weekdays and weekend days. Patterns were characterized by a rise in total PA in
the morning, peaking between 10 am and 3 pm, and a gradual decline toward the
late evening. The proportion achieving 150 minutes of moderate- to
vigorous-intensity PA per week was 27%, and 16% achieved 7,000 or more steps per 
day.
LIMITATIONS: Nonrandomized selection of participants may limit the
generalizability of the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Physical activity levels were generally low, in terms of both total 
volume and intensity, with only minor variations over the course of a day or
between days. These results emphasize the need to develop strategies to increase 
PA and reduce time spent in sedentary behaviors in elderly people with mild to
moderate PD.

© 2015 American Physical Therapy Association.

PMID: 25655884  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


635. Gait Posture. 2015 Feb;41(2):630-3. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2015.01.013. Epub
2015 Jan 20.

Can sensory attention focused exercise facilitate the utilization of
proprioception for improved balance control in PD?

Lefaivre SC(1), Almeida QJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sun Life Financial Movement Disorders Research and Rehabilitation Centre,
Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. (2)Sun Life Financial
Movement Disorders Research and Rehabilitation Centre, Wilfrid Laurier
University, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: qalmeida@wlu.ca.

Impaired sensory processing in Parkinson's disease (PD) has been argued to
contribute to balance deficits. Exercises aimed at improving sensory feedback and
body awareness have the potential to ameliorate balance deficits in PD. Recently,
PD SAFEx™, a sensory and attention focused rehabilitation program, has been shown
to improve motor deficits in PD, although balance control has never been
evaluated. The objective of this study was to measure the effects of PD SAFEx™ on
balance control in PD. Twenty-one participants with mild to moderate idiopathic
PD completed 12 weeks of PD SAFEx™ training (three times/week) in a group
setting. Prior to training, participants completed a pre-assessment evaluating
balance in accordance with an objective, computerized test of balance (modified
clinical test of sensory integration and balance (m-CTSIB) and postural stability
testing (PST)) protocols. The m-CTSIB was our primary outcome measure, which
allowed assessment of balance in both eyes open and closed conditions, thus
enabling evaluation of specific sensory contributions to balance improvement. At 
post-test, a significant interaction between time of assessment and vision
condition (p=.014) demonstrated that all participants significantly improved
balance control, specifically when eyes were closed. Balance control did not
change from pre to post with eyes open. These results provide evidence that PD
SAFEx™ is effective at improving the ability to utilize proprioceptive
information, resulting in improved balance control in the absence of vision.
Enhancing the ability to utilize proprioception for individuals with PD is an
important intermediary to improving balance deficits.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25655836  [PubMed - in process]


636. Gait Posture. 2015 Feb;41(2):744. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2014.12.020. Epub 2015 
Jan 19.

"Postural strategies assessed with inertial sensors in healthy and Parkinson
subjects" by C. Baston et al. [Gait Posture 40 (2014) 70-75]: Really a new method
to analyze postural strategy?

Rinalduzzi S(1), Currà A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and Neurophysiopathology, Ospedale Sandro Pertini, Via Monti
Tiburtini 385, 00157 Rome, Italy. Electronic address: r.steno@libero.it.
(2)Academic Neurology Unit, A. Fiorini Hospital, Terracina (LT), Department of
Medical-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, Sapienza University of Rome, Polo 
Pontino, Italy. Electronic address: antonio.curra@uniroma1.it.

PMID: 25655835  [PubMed - in process]


637. Front Hum Neurosci. 2015 Jan 22;9:19. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2015.00019. eCollection 
2015.

Erratum on: Insights from the supplementary motor area syndrome in balancing
movement initiation and inhibition.

Frontiers Production Office.

Erratum for
    Front Hum Neurosci. 2014;8:960.

[This corrects the article on p. 960 in vol. 8, PMID: 25506324.].

PMCID: PMC4302265
PMID: 25655776  [PubMed]


638. Qual Life Res. 2015 Feb 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Assessment of Parkinson's disease levodopa-induced dyskinesia: a qualitative
research study.

Lenderking WR(1), Mannix S, Petrillo J, Kenney C, Landrian A, Schrag AE.

Author information: 
(1)Evidera, 430 Bedford Street, Suite 300, Lexington, MA, USA,
william.lenderking@evidera.com.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The 26-item Parkinson disease dyskinesia scale
(PDYS-26) was developed to assess the impact of Parkinson's disease
levodopa-induced dyskinesias (PD-LID). The purpose of this qualitative research
study was to assess the content validity of the PDYS-26 in an independent sample 
and to use the findings to suggest a conceptual framework around the impact of
PD-LID.
METHODS: PD patients experiencing LID and their caregivers were recruited from
four US clinical sites. Stage I involved 22 qualitative concept elicitation
interviews with patients and caregivers, and 11 qualitative cognitive interviews 
(CI) with patients about the PDYS-26. The PDYS-26 was modified based on Stage I
findings. Stage II consisted of 13 CI on the Modified PDYS.
RESULTS: Forty-six participants were interviewed across both stages of the study.
Patient mean age was 67.3 (SD ± 9.55) years; 19 (54.3 %) female; 34 (97.1 %)
white. The content validity of the PDYS-26 was generally supported. A revised
conceptual framework with three hypothesized domains (body control, activities of
daily living, social consequences) was developed. Modifications were made to the 
PDYS-26 (i.e., emphasizing LID in the instructions; response scale modification; 
deleting or modifying items), which resulted in the 22-item Modified PDYS.
CONCLUSIONS: Stage I and II findings suggested a number of modifications to the
scale in order to improve the content validity. Psychometric testing of the
revised scale with a larger patient sample is suggested to evaluate item
performance, establish scoring, and provide quantitative support for the
conceptual framework.

PMID: 25655015  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


639. Nihon Naika Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Aug 10;103(8):1896-912; quiz 1913-23.

[Discussion meeting on common diseases in neurology].

[Article in Japanese]

Abe K, Wada K, Nakano Y, Urakami K, Kamiya T.

PMID: 25654885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nihon Naika Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Aug 10;103(8):1861-8.

[Neurological common diseases in the super-elder society. Topics: IV. Parkinson's
disease; 2. Current and new drugs for initial treatment of Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Hasegawa T.

PMID: 25654881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nihon Naika Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Aug 10;103(8):1854-60.

[Neurological common diseases in the super-elder society. Topics: IV. Parkinson's
disease; 1. The noticeable earrly symptoms of Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoritaka A.

PMID: 25654880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Clin Nurse Spec. 2015 Mar-Apr;29(2):121-2. doi: 10.1097/NUR.0000000000000111.

The fine art of caring: people with Parkinson disease and their care partners.

Young-Mason J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Author Affiliation: Distinguished Professor Emerita, College of Nursing,
University of Massachusetts Amherst.

PMID: 25654714  [PubMed - in process]


643. J Neurosci. 2015 Feb 4;35(5):1819-20. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4647-14.2015.

Are beta phase-coupled high-frequency oscillations and beta phase-locked spiking 
two sides of the same coin?

Storzer L(1), Bürgers S(1), Hirschmann J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Neuroscience and Medical Psychology, Medical Faculty,
Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf, D-40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. (2)Institute
of Clinical Neuroscience and Medical Psychology, Medical Faculty,
Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf, D-40225 Düsseldorf, Germany
Jan.Hirschmann@med.uni-duesseldorf.de.

Comment on
    J Neurosci. 2014 Sep 17;34(38):12816-27.

PMID: 25653343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Australas Psychiatry. 2015 Apr;23(2):166-8. doi: 10.1177/1039856214568223. Epub
2015 Feb 4.

Gender dysphoria "cured" by status epilepticus.

Parkinson J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatrist in private practice (retired) Wollongong, NSW, Australia
jpparkinson@optusnet.com.au.

OBJECTIVE: A case is described pointing to the biological factors in gender
identity and personality structure.
METHODS: The history is presented of a transsexual patient who experienced a
change of gender identity and personality following an episode of status
epilepticus.
RESULTS: The patient presented as convincingly feminine and with features of
Borderline Personality Disorder. She had an old brain injury. After a prolonged
epileptic episode the Borderline features disappeared and the patient expressed a
clearly male identity.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings are equivocal: they may be seen both as reflecting a
change in a neurologically structured identity and as a resetting of
psychosocially acquired characteristics.

© The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists 2015.

PMID: 25653301  [PubMed - in process]


645. Neurology. 2015 Mar 3;84(9):880-7. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001315. Epub 2015
Feb 4.

Differential effects of severe vs mild GBA mutations on Parkinson disease.

Gan-Or Z(1), Amshalom I(2), Kilarski LL(2), Bar-Shira A(2), Gana-Weisz M(2),
Mirelman A(2), Marder K(2), Bressman S(2), Giladi N(2), Orr-Urtreger A(1).

Author information: 
(1)From The Genetic Institute (Z.G.-O., I.A., A.B.-S., M.G.-W., A.O.-R.) and
Movement Disorders Unit, Parkinson Center, and Department of Neurology (A.M.,
N.G.), Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center; The Sackler Faculty of Medicine (N.G.,
A.O.-U.), Tel Aviv University, Israel; Stroke and Dementia Research Centre
(L.L.K.), St. George's, University of London, UK; Columbia University (K.M.),
Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, New York; and Beth Israel Medical Center
(S.B.), New York, NY. Z.G.-O. is currently affiliated with the Department of
Human Genetics and Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, 
Canada. aviorr@tasmc.health.gov.il ziv.gan-or@mail.mcgill.ca. (2)From The Genetic
Institute (Z.G.-O., I.A., A.B.-S., M.G.-W., A.O.-R.) and Movement Disorders Unit,
Parkinson Center, and Department of Neurology (A.M., N.G.), Tel Aviv Sourasky
Medical Center; The Sackler Faculty of Medicine (N.G., A.O.-U.), Tel Aviv
University, Israel; Stroke and Dementia Research Centre (L.L.K.), St. George's,
University of London, UK; Columbia University (K.M.), Columbia Presbyterian
Medical Center, New York; and Beth Israel Medical Center (S.B.), New York, NY.
Z.G.-O. is currently affiliated with the Department of Human Genetics and
Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2015 Mar 3;84(9):866-7.

OBJECTIVE: To better define the genotype-phenotype correlations between the type 
of GBA (glucosidase, beta, acid) mutation, severe or mild, and the risk and age
at onset (AAO), and potential mechanism of Parkinson disease (PD).
METHODS: We analyzed 1,000 patients of Ashkenazi-Jewish descent with PD for 7
founder GBA mutations, and conducted a meta-analysis of risk and AAO according to
GBA genotype (severe or mild mutation). The meta-analysis included 11,453
patients with PD and 14,565 controls from worldwide populations. The statistical 
analysis was done with and without continuity correction (constant or empirical),
considering biases that could potentially affect the results.
RESULTS: Among Ashkenazi-Jewish patients with PD, the odds ratios for PD were 2.2
and 10.3 for mild and severe GBA mutation carriers, respectively. The observed
frequency of severe GBA mutation carriers among patients with PD was more than
4-fold than expected (4.4% vs 0.9%, respectively, p < 0.0001, Fisher exact test).
In the different models of the meta-analysis, the odds ratios for PD ranged
between 2.84 and 4.94 for mild GBA mutation carriers and 9.92 and 21.29 for
severe GBA mutation carriers (p < 1 × 10(-6) for all analyses). Pooled analysis
demonstrated AAO of 53.1 (±11.2) and 58.1 (±10.6) years for severe and mild GBA
mutation carriers, respectively (p = 4.3 × 10(-5)).
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that mild and severe heterozygous GBA
mutations differentially affect the risk and the AAO of PD. Our results have
important implications for genetic counseling and clinical follow-up.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4351661 [Available on 2015-09-03]
PMID: 25653295  [PubMed - in process]


646. Neurology. 2015 Mar 3;84(9):866-7. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001321. Epub 2015
Feb 4.

GBA mutations and Parkinson disease: when genotype meets phenotype.

Scholz SW(1), Jeon BS(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (S.W.S.), Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore; 
Laboratory of Neurogenetics (S.W.S.), National Institute on Aging, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD; and Department of Neurology (B.S.J.), Seoul
National University Hospital, Republic of Korea. sscholz5@jhmi.edu. (2)From the
Department of Neurology (S.W.S.), Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore; Laboratory
of Neurogenetics (S.W.S.), National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD; and Department of Neurology (B.S.J.), Seoul National
University Hospital, Republic of Korea.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2015 Mar 3;84(9):880-7.

PMID: 25653294  [PubMed - in process]


647. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Apr;113(7):2537-48. doi: 10.1152/jn.00701.2014. Epub 2015
Feb 4.

Pallidal stimulation suppresses pathological dysrhythmia in the parkinsonian
motor cortex.

McCairn KW(1), Turner RS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco,
California; Department of Biological Sciences, Milton Keynes, The Open
University, Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom; and kevin.mccairn@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco,
California; Department of Neurobiology and Center for the Neural Basis of
Cognition, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Although there is general consensus that deep brain stimulation (DBS) yields
substantial clinical benefit in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), the
therapeutic mechanism of DBS remains a matter of debate. Recent studies
demonstrate that DBS targeting the globus pallidus internus (GPi-DBS) suppresses 
pathological oscillations in firing rate and between-cell spike synchrony in the 
vicinity of the electrode but has negligible effects on population-level firing
rate or the prevalence of burst firing. The present investigation examines the
downstream consequences of GPi-DBS at the level of the primary motor cortex (M1).
Multielectrode, single cell recordings were conducted in the M1 of two
parkinsonian nonhuman primates (Macaca fasicularis). GPi-DBS that induced
significant reductions in muscular rigidity also reduced the prevalence of both
beta (12-30 Hz) oscillations in single unit firing rates and of coherent spiking 
between pairs of M1 neurons. In individual neurons, GPi-DBS-induced increases in 
mean firing rate were three times more common than decreases; however, averaged
across the population of M1 neurons, GPi-DBS induced no net change in mean firing
rate. The population-level prevalence of burst firing was also not affected by
GPi-DBS. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that suppression of both 
pathological, beta oscillations and synchronous activity throughout the
cortico-basal ganglia network is a major therapeutic mechanism of GPi-DBS.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

PMID: 25652922  [PubMed - in process]


648. Int J Lang Commun Disord. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1111/1460-6984.12158. [Epub ahead
of print]

Swallowing disorders in Parkinson's disease: impact of lingual pumping.

Argolo N(1), Sampaio M, Pinho P, Melo A, Nóbrega AC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology and Epidemiology, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador,
Bahia, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Lingual pumping (LP) is a repetitive, involuntary, anteroposterior
movement of the tongue on the soft palate that is executed prior to transferring 
the food bolus to the pharynx, but we also observed LP when multiple swallows
were taken. LP may be associated with rigidity and bradykinesia in patients with 
Parkinson's disease (PD). This phenomenon tends to be more prevalent in dysphagic
PD patients, and its impact on swallowing dynamics remains poorly understood.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate how LP interferes with the oral and pharyngeal phases of
the swallowing of foods of different consistencies and volumes.
METHODS: We used videofluoroscopy to study the swallowing of 69 PD patients
performing 10 swallows of barium mixed with foods of different consistencies and 
volumes.
RESULTS: LP was associated with the unstable intra-oral organization of the
bolus, the loss of bolus control, the pharyngeal retention of food and food
entering the airway. This abnormal movement was also associated with a shorter
oral transit time and was found to be more prevalent with food of thicker
consistencies.
CONCLUSIONS: LP is associated with swallowing incoordination and with food
entering the airway. Preventive measures to minimise the pulmonary or nutritional
consequences of this behaviour are necessary.

© 2015 Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.

PMID: 25652413  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


649. BMC Neurol. 2015 Feb 5;15:9. doi: 10.1186/s12883-015-0261-0.

Comparing interventions and exploring neural mechanisms of exercise in Parkinson 
disease: a study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Earhart GM(1,)(2,)(3), Duncan RP(4,)(5), Huang JL(6), Perlmutter JS(7,)(8,)(9),
Pickett KA(10).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Physical Therapy, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, MO, USA. earhartg@wusm.wustl.edu. (2)Department of Neurology, Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. earhartg@wusm.wustl.edu.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. earhartg@wusm.wustl.edu. (4)Program in Physical
Therapy, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
duncanr@wustl.edu. (5)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. duncanr@wustl.edu. (6)Program in Physical Therapy, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
huangj@wusm.wustl.edu. (7)Program in Physical Therapy, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. joel@npg.wustl.edu. (8)Department of
Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
joel@npg.wustl.edu. (9)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. joel@npg.wustl.edu. (10)Occupational Therapy
Program, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA. kpickett2@wisc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Effective treatment of locomotor dysfunction in Parkinson disease
(PD) is essential, as gait difficulty is an early and major contributor to
disability. Exercise is recommended as an adjunct to traditional treatments for
improving gait, balance, and quality of life. Among the exercise approaches known
to improve walking, tango and treadmill training have recently emerged as two
promising therapies for improving gait, disease severity and quality of life, yet
these two interventions have not been directly compared to each other. Prior
studies have been helpful in identifying interventions effective in improving
gait function, but have done little to elucidate the neural mechanisms underlying
functional improvements. The primary objective of the proposed work is to compare
the effects of three community-based exercise programs, tango, treadmill training
and stretching, on locomotor function in individuals with PD. In addition, we aim
to determine whether and how these interventions alter functional connectivity of
locomotor control networks in the brain.
METHODS/DESIGN: One hundred and twenty right-handed individuals with idiopathic
PD who are at least 30 years of age will be assigned in successive waves to one
of three community-based exercise groups: tango dancing, treadmill training or
stretching (control). Each group will receive three months of exercise training
with twice weekly one-hour group classes. Each participant will be evaluated at
three time points: pre-intervention (baseline), post-intervention (3 months), and
follow-up (6 months). All evaluations will include assessment of gait, balance,
disease severity, and quality of life. Baseline and post-intervention evaluations
will also include task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and
resting state functional connectivity MRI. All MRI and behavioral measures will
be conducted with participants OFF anti-Parkinson medication, with behavioral
measures also assessed ON medication.
DISCUSSION: This study will provide important insights regarding the effects of
different modes of exercise on locomotor function in PD. The protocol is
innovative because it: 1) uses group exercise approaches for all conditions
including treadmill training, 2) directly compares tango to treadmill training
and stretching, 3) tests participants OFF medication, and 4) utilizes two
distinct neuroimaging approaches to explore mechanisms of the effects of exercise
on the brain.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01768832 .

PMCID: PMC4326476
PMID: 25652002  [PubMed - in process]


650. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2015 Mar 4;7(8):4883-9. doi: 10.1021/am508946e. Epub
2015 Feb 17.

Fe-Cr-Al containing oxide semiconductors as potential solar water-splitting
materials.

Sliozberg K(1), Stein HS, Khare C, Parkinson BA, Ludwig A, Schuhmann W.

Author information: 
(1)Analytical Chemistry, Center for Electrochemical Sciences (CES),
Ruhr-Universität Bochum , Universitätsstrasse 150; D-44780 Bochum, Germany.

A high-throughput thin film materials library for Fe-Cr-Al-O was obtained by
reactive magnetron cosputtering and analyzed with automated EDX and XRD to
elucidate compositional and structural properties. An automated optical scanning 
droplet cell was then used to perform photoelectrochemical measurements of 289
compositions on the library, including electrochemical stability, potentiodynamic
photocurrents and photocurrent spectroscopy. The photocurrent onset and open
circuit potentials of two semiconductor compositions (n-type semiconducting:
Fe51Cr47Al2Ox, p-type semiconducting Fe36.5Cr55.5Al8Ox) are favorable for water
splitting. Cathodic photocurrents are observed at 1.0 V vs RHE for the p-type
material exhibiting an open circuit potential of 0.85 V vs RHE. The n-type
material shows an onset of photocurrents at 0.75 V and an open circuit potential 
of 0.6 V. The p-type material showed a bandgap of 1.55 eV, while the n-type
material showed a bandgap of 1.97 eV.

PMID: 25650842  [PubMed - in process]


651. J Clin Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;76(1):e104-10. doi: 10.4088/JCP.13m08790.

Risk of Parkinson's disease following zolpidem use: a retrospective,
population-based cohort study.

Huang HC(1), Tsai CH, Muo CH, Lin KH, Lu MK, Sung FC, Kao CH.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medical Science, China Medical University,
Taichung, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the influence of long-term zolpidem use on the incidence
of developing Parkinson's disease.
METHOD: 2,961 subjects who used zolpidem for the first time longer than 3 months 
between 1998 and 2000 were identified in the National Health Insurance system of 
Taiwan. Subjects without a history of zolpidem use were randomly selected as a
comparison cohort and frequency matched to zolpidem users based on age, sex, and 
index date. The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease was based on the criteria of the
International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification. 
Its incidence until the end of 2009 was calculated and its hazard ratios (HRs)
and 95% CIs were estimated using Cox proportional hazards regression models and
Kaplan-Meier analysis.
RESULTS: The overall incidence of Parkinson's disease was greater among zolpidem 
users than in the comparison cohort (HR = 1.88; 95% CI, 1.45-2.45). However,
there was no difference in Parkinson's disease incidence between these 2 cohorts 
after 5 years of observation. The risk of Parkinson's disease increased with
increasing zolpidem dose, with an HR of 0.70 for low-dose users (< 400 mg/y) and 
2.94 for high-dose users (≥ 1,600 mg/y). The incidence of Parkinson's disease was
greater in subjects using zolpidem only (HR = 2.35; 95% CI, 1.66-3.33) compared
to those using benzodiazepines only (HR = 1.31; 95% CI, 0.91-1.90). By stratified
analysis, zolpidem use with concurrent depression (HR = 4.79) increased the risk 
of Parkinson's disease compared to that of zolpidem users without concurrent
depression.
CONCLUSIONS: Zolpidem use might unmask preclinical Parkinson's disease,
especially in patients with depression. However, large population-based,
unbiased, randomized trials are warranted to confirm this finding.

© Copyright 2015 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

PMID: 25650675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Intern Med J. 2015 Feb;45(2):134-9. doi: 10.1111/imj.12656.

Deep brain stimulation for Parkinson disease in Australia: current scientific and
clinical status.

Poortvliet PC(1), Silburn PA, Coyne TJ, Chenery HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Asia-Pacific Centre for Neuromodulation, Centre for Clinical Research, The
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia; Centre for
Sensorimotor Performance, School of Human Movement and Nutrition Sciences, The
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

There is currently no cure for Parkinson disease (PD). Disease management is
directed primarily at motor symptom relief, but the impact of non-motor symptoms 
associated with PD should not be underestimated. Medical and surgical treatment
options aim to increase functional independence and quality of life. Deep brain
stimulation (DBS) has proven to be a safe, effective and cost-efficient surgical 
treatment option. In 2009, the Australian referral guidelines, developed to
provide a synopsis of DBS therapy for PD, were introduced, and since then novel
findings have been reported regarding the timing of intervention, target
selection and symptom management. Our aim is to provide an update of DBS for PD
in Australia. Intervention at earlier stages of the disease can potentially
improve quality of life over a longer period with greater possibilities for
meaningful social and professional contributions. For less responsive motor
symptoms (e.g. freezing of gait, postural instability), the pedunculopontine
nucleus has emerged as a promising new surgical target. Traditional PD treatment 
is focused on improvement of motor symptoms, but the disorder is also
characterised by non-motor symptoms, often undiagnosed or undisclosed, that have 
the potential to impact quality of life to a greater extent than motor symptoms. 
It is essential to identify and routinely monitor for non-motor symptoms as they 
can emerge at all stages of the disease or can result from treatment. Many of
these current advances require long-term monitoring of treatment outcomes to
improve future clinical practice, refine patient selection and ensure best
patient outcomes.

© 2015 Royal Australasian College of Physicians.

PMID: 25650534  [PubMed - in process]


653. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):728-33. doi: 10.1002/mds.26161. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Cognitive profile of LRRK2-related Parkinson's disease.

Srivatsal S(1), Cholerton B, Leverenz JB, Wszolek ZK, Uitti RJ, Dickson DW,
Weintraub D, Trojanowski JQ, Van Deerlin VM, Quinn JF, Chung KA, Peterson AL,
Factor SA, Wood-Siverio C, Goldman JG, Stebbins GT, Bernard B, Ritz B, Rausch R, 
Espay AJ, Revilla FJ, Devoto J, Rosenthal LS, Dawson TM, Albert MS, Mata IF, Hu
SC, Montine KS, Johnson C, Montine TJ, Edwards KL, Zhang J, Zabetian CP.

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Mason Neuroscience Institute, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence suggests that genetic factors play a role in the 
variability associated with cognitive performance in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Mutations in the LRRK2 gene are the most common cause of monogenic PD; however,
the cognitive profile of LRRK2-related PD is not well-characterized.
METHODS: A cohort of 1,447 PD patients enrolled in the PD Cognitive Genetics
Consortium was screened for LRRK2 mutations and completed detailed cognitive
testing. Associations between mutation carrier status and cognitive test scores
were assessed using linear regression models.
RESULTS: LRRK2 mutation carriers (n = 29) demonstrated better performance on the 
Mini Mental State Examination (P = 0.03) and the Letter-Number Sequencing Test
(P = 0.005). A smaller proportion of LRRK2 carriers were demented (P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Our cross-sectional study demonstrates better performance on certain
cognitive tests, as well as lower rates of dementia in LRRK2-related PD. Future
longitudinal studies are needed to determine whether LRRK2 mutation carriers
exhibit slower cognitive decline. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4397146 [Available on 2016-04-15]
PMID: 25650144  [PubMed - in process]


654. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26159. [Epub ahead of print]

Amantadine extended release for levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's
disease (EASED Study).

Pahwa R(1), Tanner CM, Hauser RA, Sethi K, Isaacson S, Truong D, Struck L, Ruby
AE, McClure NL, Went GT, Stempien MJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.

ADS-5102 is a long-acting, extended-release capsule formulation of amantadine HCl
administered once daily at bedtime. This study investigated the safety, efficacy,
and tolerability of ADS-5102 in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with
levodopa-induced dyskinesia. This was a randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of 83 PD patients with troublesome
dyskinesia assigned to placebo or one of three doses of ADS-5102 (260 mg, 340 mg,
420 mg) administered daily at bedtime for 8 weeks. The primary efficacy analysis 
compared change from baseline to week 8 in Unified Dyskinesia Rating Scale
(UDysRS) total score for 340 mg ADS-5102 versus placebo. Secondary outcome
measures included change in UDysRS for 260 mg, 420 mg, Fatigue Severity Scale
(FSS), Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
(MDS-UPDRS), patient diary, Clinician's Global Impression of Change, and
Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39). ADS-5102 340 mg significantly reduced
dyskinesia versus placebo (27% reduction in UDysRS, P = 0.005). In addition,
ADS-5102 significantly increased ON time without troublesome dyskinesia, as
assessed by PD patient diaries, at 260 mg (P = 0.004), 340 mg (P = 0.008) and 420
mg (P = 0.018). Adverse events (AEs) were reported for 82%, 80%, 95%, and 90% of 
patients in the placebo, 260-mg, 340-mg, and 420-mg groups, respectively.
Constipation, hallucinations, dizziness, and dry mouth were the most frequent
AEs. Study withdrawal rates were 9%, 15%, 14%, and 40% for the placebo, 260-mg,
340-mg, and 420-mg groups, respectively. All study withdrawals in the active
treatment groups were attributable to AEs. ADS-5102 was generally well tolerated 
and resulted in significant and dose-dependent improvements in dyskinesia in PD
patients. © 2015 Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Movement Disorders published by
Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25650051  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


655. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):688-95. doi: 10.1002/mds.26154. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Patterns of cortical thickness associated with impulse control disorders in
Parkinson's disease.

Biundo R(1), Weis L, Facchini S, Formento-Dojot P, Vallelunga A, Pilleri M,
Weintraub D, Antonini A.

Author information: 
(1)"Fondazione Ospedale San Camillo"-I.R.C.C.S., Parkinson and Movement Disorders
Unit, Venice, Italy.

Previous functional neuroimaging studies in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients
with impulse control disorders (ICDs) demonstrated dysfunction of the reward
network, although the extent of anatomical changes is unclear. The aim of this
study was to measure brain cortical thickness and subcortical volumes, and to
assess their relationship with presence and severity of symptoms, in PD patients 
with and without ICDs. We studied 110 PD patients (N = 58 with ICDs) and 33
healthy controls (all negative for ICDs) who underwent an extensive neurological,
neuropsychological, and behavioral assessment as well as structural 1.5 Tesla
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Between-group differences in brain cortical
thickness and subcortical volumes, assessed with the FreeSurfer 5.1 tool, were
analyzed. In patients with ICDs, we found significant cortical thinning in
fronto-striatal circuitry, specifically in the right superior orbitofrontal, left
rostral middle frontal, bilateral caudal middle frontal region, and corpus
callosum, as well as volume reduction in the right accumbens and increase in the 
left amygdala. Finally, we observed a positive association relationship between
severity of impulsive symptoms and left rostral middle frontal, inferior
parietal, and supramarginal areas. These results support the involvement of both 
reward and response inhibition networks in PD patients with ICDs. Moreover, their
severity is associated with alterations in brain regions linked with reward and
top-down control networks. Increased understanding of the mechanisms underlying
impulsive and compulsive behaviors might help improve therapeutic strategies for 
these important disorders. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25649923  [PubMed - in process]


656. J Neurol. 2015 Apr;262(4):909-15. doi: 10.1007/s00415-014-7634-y. Epub 2015 Feb
4.

Clinical routine use of dopamine transporter imaging in 516 consecutive patients.

Thiriez C(1), Itti E, Fénelon G, Evangelista E, Meignan M, Cesaro P, Remy P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Expert Parkinson, Service de neurologie, Hôpital Henri Mondor, 51
avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny, 94010, Creteil Cedex, France,
claire.thiriez@hmn.aphp.fr.

[(123)I]-FP-CIT is a single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) ligand
showing in vivo the loss of dopaminergic terminals in the brain and is now
available in the market. Despite several systematic studies in clinically
inconclusive cases, the use of such imaging in clinical routine is scarcely
reported. We analyzed 516 files of subjects with movement disorders who were
consecutively examined using [(123)I]-FP-CIT scan and determined whether the use 
of imaging was appropriate and if it improved clinical diagnosis or care of the
patient. In addition, we determined if appropriate use was related to
subspecialties in Neurology, e.g., movement disorders' specialists vs. general
neurologists, and if appropriate use was increasing over time. Among the 516
scans, 18 % were in agreement with the license, 62 % were classified as
appropriate and 37 % were considered inappropriate. A change of management was
obvious in 60 % of patients, but in 92 % of those with an appropriate request vs.
13 % of patients with an inappropriate request. Movement disorders' specialists
had more appropriate requests than other practitioners. Eventually, comparing the
first 100 vs. the last 100 quantified SPECT, performed more than 2.5 years apart,
we found no difference for the appropriateness of the examination. The use of
[(123)I]-FP-CIT imaging in clinical routine does not fit a restrictive license.
An inappropriate use is seen in nearly 40 % of cases, which reduces the real
cost-effectiveness of the technique suggesting a need for continuing medical
education on the topic.

PMID: 25649832  [PubMed - in process]


657. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Feb 3. [Epub ahead of print]

The Rationale for Exercise in the Management of Pain in Parkinson's Disease.

Allen NE(1), Moloney N(1), van Vliet V(1), Canning CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical and Rehabilitation Sciences Research Group, Faculty of Health
Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

Pain is a distressing non-motor symptom experienced by up to 85% of people with
Parkinson's disease (PD), yet it is often untreated. This pain is likely to be
influenced by many factors, including the disease process, PD impairments as well
as co-existing musculoskeletal and/or neuropathic pain conditions. Expert opinion
recommends that exercise is included as one component of pain management
programs; however, the effect of exercise on pain in this population is unclear. 
This review presents evidence describing the potential influence of exercise on
the pain-related pathophysiological processes present in PD. Emerging evidence
from both animal and human studies suggests that exercise might contribute to
neuroplasticity and neuro-restoration by increasing brain neurotrophic factors,
synaptic strength and angiogenesis, as well as stimulating neurogenesis and
improving metabolism and the immune response. These changes may be beneficial in 
improving the central processing of pain. There is also evidence that exercise
can activate both the dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic pain inhibitory pathways,
suggesting that exercise may help to modulate the experience of pain in PD.
Whilst clinical data on the effects of exercise for pain relief in people with PD
are scarce, and are urgently needed, preliminary guidelines are presented for
exercise prescription for the management of central neuropathic, peripheral
neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain in PD.

PMID: 25649828  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


658. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26153. [Epub ahead of print]

Handling missing values in the MDS-UPDRS.

Goetz CG(1), Luo S, Wang L, Tilley BC, LaPelle NR, Stebbins GT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago
IL, USA.

This study was undertaken to define the number of missing values permissible to
render valid total scores for each Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson's 
Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) part. To handle missing values, imputation
strategies serve as guidelines to reject an incomplete rating or create a
surrogate score. We tested a rigorous, scale-specific, data-based approach to
handling missing values for the MDS-UPDRS. From two large MDS-UPDRS datasets, we 
sequentially deleted item scores, either consistently (same items) or randomly
(different items) across all subjects. Lin's Concordance Correlation Coefficient 
(CCC) compared scores calculated without missing values with prorated scores
based on sequentially increasing missing values. The maximal number of missing
values retaining a CCC greater than 0.95 determined the threshold for rendering a
valid prorated score. A second confirmatory sample was selected from the
MDS-UPDRS international translation program. To provide valid part scores
applicable across all Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) stages when the same items are
consistently missing, one missing item from Part I, one from Part II, three from 
Part III, but none from Part IV can be allowed. To provide valid part scores
applicable across all H&Y stages when random item entries are missing, one
missing item from Part I, two from Part II, seven from Part III, but none from
Part IV can be allowed. All cutoff values were confirmed in the validation
sample. These analyses are useful for constructing valid surrogate part scores
for MDS-UPDRS when missing items fall within the identified threshold and give
scientific justification for rejecting partially completed ratings that fall
below the threshold. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25649812  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


659. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):632-7. doi: 10.1002/mds.26149. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus: All that glitters isn't gold?

Galati S(1), Stefani A.

Author information: 
(1)Neurocenter of Southern Switzerland.

With the silver anniversary of deep brain stimulation (DBS) behind us, this would
seem to be a good juncture to consider its successes and unanswered questions.
Bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation has changed the clinical
perspective of several thousand Parkinson's disease (PD) patients worldwide. A
recent reappraisal animates the field with strong arguments in favor of an
anticipation of the stereotactic approach in patients with as little as 5 to 6
years of disease history if they manifest motor complications. From what was once
a no-choice option, STN-DBS is now becoming more and more attractive to
neurologists dealing with movement disorders. Despite the development of new
pharmacological treatment and renewed rehabilitation programs able to modify the 
severity of drug-related complications, a resurgence of stimulation therapy
reminiscent of an old era of medicine with an attendant blinkered mindset has
emerged. Yet, the DBS-mediated effects are modest on critical aspects such as
gait impairment and extremely variable depending on the clinical phenotype and
individual clinical profile. Hence, the indication for DBS should become more,
and not less, individually tailored. Those physicians considering deep brain
stimulation (DBS) as a therapeutic option need to evaluate results beyond
short-term quality of life, giving the correct weight to the direct and indirect 
costs over the longer term as well as to life prognosis. Unequivocal recourse to 
early-stimulation surgery necessitates investigations not limited to a mere
comparative assessment versus drug-mediated benefits, but instead showing
evidence of a clear degree of disease-modifying effect or a rescue of basal
ganglia plasticity. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25649375  [PubMed - in process]


660. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):714-20. doi: 10.1002/mds.26147. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Incidence and prevalence of Parkinson's disease among Navajo people living in the
Navajo nation.

Gordon PH(1), Mehal JM, Holman RC, Bartholomew ML, Cheek JE, Rowland AS.

Author information: 
(1)Indian Health Service, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Northern 
Navajo Medical Center, Shiprock, New Mexico.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is largely unstudied among American Indians. Unique
populations might harbor clues to elusive causes. We describe the incidence and
prevalence of PD among Navajo people residing in the Navajo Nation, home to the
largest American Indian tribe in the United States. We analyzed 2001-2011
inpatient and outpatient visit data for Navajo people obtained from the Indian
Health Service, which provides health care to American Indian people living on
the Navajo Reservation. Cases were defined by at least two inpatient or
outpatient visits with the diagnosis of PD. Crude and age-adjusted incidence and 
prevalence rates were calculated overall as well as by age, sex, region of
residence, and time period. Five hundred twenty-four Navajo people with median
age-at-onset of 74.0 years were diagnosed with PD during the study period,
yielding an average annual crude incidence rate of 22.5/100,000. Age-specific
incidence was 232.0 for patients 65 years of age or older and 302.0 for 80 years 
of age or older. Age-adjusted incidence was 35.9 overall (238.1 for ≥65 years),
was higher in men than in women (47.5 vs. 27.7; P < 0.001), varied by region
(P = 0.03), and was similar between time periods (2002-2004 vs. 2009-2011). The
age-adjusted point prevalence rate was 261.0. The rate of PD among Navajo People 
appears to be as high as or higher than rates reported in many other populations.
Rates increased to the highest age group, consistent with population-based
studies. Further investigation is warranted to examine risk factors for PD in
this remote population. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25649219  [PubMed - in process]


661. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26144. [Epub ahead of print]

Serotonergic markers in Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesias.

Cheshire P(1), Ayton S, Bertram KL, Ling H, Li A, McLean C, Halliday GM,
O'Sullivan SS, Revesz T, Finkelstein DI, Storey E, Williams DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (Neuroscience), Monash University, Melbourne,
Australia.

Preclinical animal models implicate serotonin neurons in the pathophysiology of
levodopa (l-dopa)-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease (PD), but effective 
treatment remains elusive. We examined the relationship between serotonin and
l-dopa-induced dyskinesias in a pathologically confirmed cohort of PD patients.
We obtained brain tissue from 44 PD cases and 17 age-matched controls and
assessed monoamine levels and the serotonin and dopamine transporters in the
striatum, and the extent of dopaminergic and serotonergic cell preservation in
the substantia nigra (SN) and the dorsal raphe nuclei (DRN), respectively. As
expected, PD patients demonstrated a severe loss of all dopaminergic markers,
including dopamine (P < 0.0001) and the dopamine transporter (P < 0.0001) in the 
striatum, and dopaminergic neurons (P < 0.001) in the SN, compared with controls.
Marked serotonin loss was observed in the caudate (but not putamen) in PD
patients compared with controls (P < 0.001), but no difference was found in the
levels of the serotonin transporter in the striatum or density of serotonergic
neurons in the DRN between these groups, suggesting a functional but not
structural change in the serotonergic system in PD. No difference was seen in
levels of serotonergic and dopaminergic markers in the striatum between PD
patients with and without dyskinesias, or between cases separated according to
the clinical severity of their dyskinesias. The absence of a correlation between 
striatal serotonin markers and the incidence and severity of l-dopa-induced
dyskinesias suggests that an intact and functioning serotonergic system is not a 
risk factor for developing dyskinesias in PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and 
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25649148  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


662. Eur J Neurol. 2015 May;22(5):815-e56. doi: 10.1111/ene.12666. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Effect of opicapone on levodopa pharmacokinetics, catechol-O-methyltransferase
activity and motor fluctuations in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Ferreira JJ(1), Rocha JF, Falcão A, Santos A, Pinto R, Nunes T, Soares-da-Silva
P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Clinical Research Unit, Institute of Molecular Medicine, Lisbon, 
Portugal.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Opicapone (OPC) is a novel third generation
catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor that enhances levodopa
availability. This study investigated the effects of OPC in comparison with
placebo on levodopa pharmacokinetics, tolerability and safety, COMT activity and 
motor response to levodopa in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with motor
fluctuations.
METHODS: This was a randomized, multicentre, double-blind and placebo-controlled 
study in four parallel groups of PD patients treated with standard-release
100/25 mg levodopa/carbidopa or levodopa/benserazide and with motor fluctuations 
(wearing-OFF phenomenon). Subjects were sequentially assigned to be administered,
once-daily, up to 28 days (maintenance phase), placebo (n = 10) or 5 (n = 10), 15
(n = 10) and 30 mg (n = 10) OPC. Two levodopa tests were performed, one at
baseline and another following the maintenance phase. Subjects kept a diary to
record motor fluctuations (ON/OFF periods) throughout the study.
RESULTS: In relation to placebo, levodopa exposure (AUC0-6 ) increased 24.7%,
53.9% and 65.6% following 5, 15 and 30 mg OPC, respectively. Maximum COMT
inhibition (Emax ) ranged from 52% (5 mg OPC) to 80% (30 mg OPC). The study was
not designed to detect any significant differences in motor performance, but the 
exploratory analysis performed shows improvement in various motor outcomes,
including a dose-dependent change in absolute OFF time corresponding to a
percentage decrease of 4.16% (P > 0.05), 29.55% (P > 0.05) and 32.71% (P < 0.05) 
with 5, 15 and 30 mg OPC, respectively. Treatments were generally well tolerated 
and safe.
CONCLUSIONS: OPC is a promising new COMT inhibitor that significantly decreased
COMT activity, increased systemic exposure to levodopa and improved motor
response.

© 2015 EAN.

PMID: 25649051  [PubMed - in process]


663. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Apr;36(4):1736-42. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.12.037. Epub 2015 Jan 6.

The role of pallidal serotonergic function in Parkinson's disease dyskinesias: a 
positron emission tomography study.

Smith R(1), Wu K(2), Hart T(2), Loane C(2), Brooks DJ(3), Björklund A(4), Odin
P(5), Piccini P(2), Politis M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Section for Neurology, Skåne University
Hospital, Lund University, Lund, Sweden; Division of Brain Sciences, Department
of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK. (2)Division of Brain Sciences, 
Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK. (3)Division of Brain
Sciences, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK; Positron
Emission Tomography Center, Institute of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University,
Aarhus, Denmark. (4)Department of Experimental Medical Sciences, Wallenberg
Neuroscience Center, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. (5)Department of Clinical
Sciences, Section for Neurology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University,
Lund, Sweden; Department of Neurology, Central Hospital, Bremerhaven, Germany.
(6)Division of Brain Sciences, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London,
London, UK; Neurodegeneration Imaging Group, Department of Clinical Neuroscience,
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN), King's College
London, London, UK. Electronic address: marios.politis@kcl.ac.uk.

We have investigated the role of globus pallidus (GP) serotonergic terminals in
the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) in Parkinson's disease
(PD). We studied 12 PD patients without LIDs, 12 PD patients with LIDs, and 12
healthy control subjects. We used (11)C-DASB positron emission tomography (PET), 
a marker of serotonin transporter availability, and (11)C-raclopride PET to
measure changes in synaptic dopamine levels following levodopa administration. PD
patients without LIDs showed a significant reduction of GP serotonin transporter 
binding compared with healthy controls although this was within the normal range 
in PD patients with LIDs. Levels of GP serotonin transporter binding correlated
positively with severity of dyskinesias. (11)C-raclopride PET detected a
significant rise in GP synaptic dopamine levels of patients with LIDs after a
levodopa challenge but not in patients with a stable response. Our findings
indicate that LIDs in PD are associated with higher GP serotonergic function.
This increased serotonin function may result in further dysregulation of
thalamocortical signals and so promote the expression of dyskinesias.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25649022  [PubMed - in process]


664. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):313-27. doi: 10.1002/mds.26142. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

The therapeutic potential of cannabinoids for movement disorders.

Kluger B(1), Triolo P, Jones W, Jankovic J.

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Center, Department of Neurology, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA.

There is growing interest in the therapeutic potential of marijuana (cannabis)
and cannabinoid-based chemicals within the medical community and, particularly,
for neurological conditions. This interest is driven both by changes in the legal
status of cannabis in many areas and increasing research into the roles of
endocannabinoids within the central nervous system and their potential as
symptomatic and/or neuroprotective therapies. We review basic science as well as 
preclinical and clinical studies on the therapeutic potential of cannabinoids
specifically as it relates to movement disorders. The pharmacology of cannabis is
complex, with over 60 neuroactive chemicals identified to date. The
endocannabinoid system modulates neurotransmission involved in motor function,
particularly within the basal ganglia. Preclinical research in animal models of
several movement disorders have shown variable evidence for symptomatic benefits,
but more consistently suggest potential neuroprotective effects in several animal
models of Parkinson's (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Clinical observations
and clinical trials of cannabinoid-based therapies suggests a possible benefit of
cannabinoids for tics and probably no benefit for tremor in multiple sclerosis or
dyskinesias or motor symptoms in PD. Data are insufficient to draw conclusions
regarding HD, dystonia, or ataxia and nonexistent for myoclonus or RLS. Despite
the widespread publicity about the medical benefits of cannabinoids, further
preclinical and clinical research is needed to better characterize the
pharmacological, physiological, and therapeutic effects of this class of drugs in
movement disorders.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4357541 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25649017  [PubMed - in process]


665. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):373-8. doi: 10.1002/mds.26076. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Nonmotor predictors for levodopa requirement in de novo patients with Parkinson's
disease.

Erro R(1), Picillo M, Amboni M, Moccia M, Vitale C, Longo K, Pellecchia MT,
Santangelo G, Martinez-Martin P, Chaudhuri KR, Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, University
College London (UCL) Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom; Dipartimento
di Scienze Neurologiche e del Movimento, Università di Verona, Policlinico Borgo 
Roma, Verona, Italy.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Mar;11(3):123.

The variability in the clinical phenotype of Parkinson's disease (PD) suggests
the existence of several subtypes of the disease. Motor heterogeneity of PD is
well established, but not nonmotor heterogeneity. At present, we are unable to
predict the rate of progression of PD based on robust biomarkers. We aimed to
examine the heterogeneity of PD by attempting to identify nonmotor factors
associated with the rate of motor progression and functional decline, as measured
by the time to reach the need for levodopa therapy during the first 4 years from 
diagnosis in a cohort of de novo PD patients. The median time to introduction of 
L-dopa for patients with urinary symptoms was significantly shorter than that for
those without (20 vs. 37 months; P = 0.001). Cox's regression models showed that 
the urinary domain was associated with a higher probability of starting L-dopa
(hazard ratio: 2.1; P = 0.002). There was no influence of such confounders as
sex, age, baseline motor features, use of dopamine agonists and/or monoamine
oxidase B inhibitors, and total L-dopa equivalent daily dosage. Patients with
urinary symptoms had higher baseline and follow-up motor and nonmotor
disturbances than those without. Our study suggests the existence of a subgroup
of patients who show urinary symptoms along with an overall higher motor and
nonmotor burden. Such patients are prone to manifest a rapid functional decline
over the first 4 years of the disease. Urinary symptoms might be a clinical
marker of severity as well as a possible nonmotor subtype of PD.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25648938  [PubMed - in process]


666. Proteomics. 2015 Apr;15(8):1390-404. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201400390. Epub 2015 Mar
21.

A visual review of the interactome of LRRK2: Using deep-curated molecular
interaction data to represent biology.

Porras P(1), Duesbury M, Fabregat A, Ueffing M, Orchard S, Gloeckner CJ,
Hermjakob H.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute
(EMBL-EBI), Hinxton, UK.

Molecular interaction databases are essential resources that enable access to a
wealth of information on associations between proteins and other biomolecules.
Network graphs generated from these data provide an understanding of the
relationships between different proteins in the cell, and network analysis has
become a widespread tool supporting -omics analysis. Meaningfully representing
this information remains far from trivial and different databases strive to
provide users with detailed records capturing the experimental details behind
each piece of interaction evidence. A targeted curation approach is necessary to 
transfer published data generated by primarily low-throughput techniques into
interaction databases. In this review we present an example highlighting the
value of both targeted curation and the subsequent effective visualization of
detailed features of manually curated interaction information. We have curated
interactions involving LRRK2, a protein of largely unknown function linked to
familial forms of Parkinson's disease, and hosted the data in the IntAct
database. This LRRK2-specific dataset was then used to produce different
visualization examples highlighting different aspects of the data: the level of
confidence in the interaction based on orthogonal evidence, those interactions
found under close-to-native conditions, and the enzyme-substrate relationships in
different in vitro enzymatic assays. Finally, pathway annotation taken from the
Reactome database was overlaid on top of interaction networks to bring biological
functional context to interaction maps.

© 2015 The Authors. PROTEOMICS published by Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA,
Weinheim.

PMCID: PMC4415485
PMID: 25648416  [PubMed - in process]


667. Neurosci Res. 2015 Jun;95:74-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.012. Epub 2015 Jan 
31.

Parkinson's disease patients showed delayed awareness of motor intention.

Tabu H(1), Aso T(2), Matsuhashi M(2), Ueki Y(3), Takahashi R(4), Fukuyama H(2),
Shibasaki H(5), Mima T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Kitano Research Center of Mental Neurological, Sensory and Motor Organ
Disorders, Osaka 530-8480, Japan; Human Brain Research Center, Kyoto University
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan; Department of Neurology,
Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. (2)Human
Brain Research Center, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
606-8507, Japan. (3)Human Brain Research Center, Kyoto University Graduate School
of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan; Department of Neurology and Neuroscience,
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya City University, Nagoya 467-8602,
Japan. (4)Department of Neurology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. (5)Human Brain Research Center, Kyoto University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan; Department of Neurology, Kyoto
University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan; Emeritus Professor
of Department of Neurology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
606-8507, Japan. (6)Human Brain Research Center, Kyoto University Graduate School
of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. Electronic address: mima@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Although dopamine plays an important role for motor control and modulates the
frontal function via basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop, it is not known whether
dopamine can affect the awareness of motor intention or not. To test this
hypothesis, we applied Libet's clock paradigm to Parkinson's disease (PD)
patients. Thirteen PD patients and 13 age-matched, healthy controls took part in 
the experiment which consisted of three judgment paradigms: W, M and S judgment. 
In W and M judgments, subjects were asked to press the key at self-willed timing.
In W judgment, subjects reported the location of the clock's hand when they
became aware of the intention (W-time). In M judgment, subjects reported the time
when they became aware of the actual movement (M-time). In S judgment, subjects
reported the time of the electrical stimulation given to their hand (S-time).
W-time was significantly shorter in PD patients than in healthy control subjects 
while M-time and S-time were not different between the two groups. Delayed
awareness of motor intention but not of action in PD patients might be related to
dopamine depletion in those patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25646667  [PubMed - in process]


668. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Feb 17;112(7):2257-62. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1423573112. Epub 2015 Feb 2.

Network-based metaanalysis identifies HNF4A and PTBP1 as longitudinally dynamic
biomarkers for Parkinson's disease.

Santiago JA(1), Potashkin JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology Department, Chicago Medical School,
Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL 60064.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology Department, Chicago Medical School,
Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL 60064
judy.potashkin@rosalindfranklin.edu.

Environmental and genetic factors are likely to be involved in the pathogenesis
of Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease 
among the elderly. Network-based metaanalysis of four independent microarray
studies identified the hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4A), a transcription
factor associated with gluconeogenesis and diabetes, as a central regulatory hub 
gene up-regulated in blood of PD patients. In parallel, the polypyrimidine tract 
binding protein 1 (PTBP1), involved in the stabilization and mRNA translation of 
insulin, was identified as the most down-regulated gene. Quantitative PCR assays 
revealed that HNF4A and PTBP1 mRNAs were up- and down-regulated, respectively, in
blood of 51 PD patients and 45 controls nested in the Diagnostic and Prognostic
Biomarkers for Parkinson's Disease. These results were confirmed in blood of 50
PD patients compared with 46 healthy controls nested in the Harvard Biomarker
Study. Relative abundance of HNF4A mRNA correlated with the Hoehn and Yahr stage 
at baseline, suggesting its clinical utility to monitor disease severity. Using
both markers, PD patients were classified with 90% sensitivity and 80%
specificity. Longitudinal performance analysis demonstrated that relative
abundance of HNF4A and PTBP1 mRNAs significantly decreased and increased,
respectively, in PD patients during the 3-y follow-up period. The inverse
regulation of HNF4A and PTBP1 provides a molecular rationale for the altered
insulin signaling observed in PD patients. The longitudinally dynamic biomarkers 
identified in this study may be useful for monitoring disease-modifying therapies
for PD.

PMCID: PMC4343174 [Available on 2015-08-17]
PMID: 25646437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Synapse. 2015 Apr;69(4):183-9. doi: 10.1002/syn.21805. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Parkinson's disease treatment may cause impulse-control disorder via dopamine D3 
receptors.

Seeman P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pharmacology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, 260 Heath Street West, Unit 605, Toronto, Ontario, M5P 3L6, Canada.

In treating Parkinson's disease with dopaminergic agonists, such as pramipexole, 
ropinirole, pergolide, rotigotine, apomorphine, or bromocriptine, it has been
observed that a significant number of patients develop impulse-control disorders,
such as compulsive shopping, pathological gambling, or hypersexuality. Because
the dopamine agonists have high affinities for the dopamine D2 and D3 receptors, 
the drug dissociation constants of these drugs at the functional high-affinity
states of these receptors, namely D2High and D3High, were compared. The data show
that, compared to the other dopamine agonist drugs, pramipexole has a relatively 
high selectivity for the dopamine D3 receptor, as compared to D2, suggesting that
the D3 receptor may be a primary target for pramipexole. There is a trend showing
that the proportion of impulse-control disorders is related to the selectivity
for D3 receptors over D2 receptors, with pramipexole having the highest
association with, or frequency of, impulse-control disorders. While the number of
studies are limited, the proportion of patients with impulse-control disorder in 
Parkinson patients treated with an add-on agonist were 32% for pramipexole, 25%
for ropinirole, 16% for pergolide, 22% for rotigotine, 10% for apomorphine, and
6.8% for bromocriptine. Clinically, temporary replacement of pramipexole by
bromocriptine may provide relief or reversal of the impulsive behavior associated
with selective D3 stimulation by either pramipexole or ropinirole, while
maintaining D2 stimulation needed for the anti-Parkinson action. Synapse,
69:183-189, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25645960  [PubMed - in process]


670. Exp Cell Res. 2015 Mar 1;332(1):60-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2015.01.011. Epub 2015
Jan 30.

Differential regulation of caspase-2 in MPP⁺-induced apoptosis in primary
cortical neurons.

Hu HI(1), Chang HH(2), Sun DS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Human Genetics, Tzu-Chi University, No.
701, Section 3, Zhong-Yang Road, 97004 Hualien, Taiwan, ROC. (2)Department of
Molecular Biology and Human Genetics, Tzu-Chi University, No. 701, Section 3,
Zhong-Yang Road, 97004 Hualien, Taiwan, ROC; Institute of Medical Sciences,
Tzu-Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan, ROC. (3)Department of Molecular Biology and 
Human Genetics, Tzu-Chi University, No. 701, Section 3, Zhong-Yang Road, 97004
Hualien, Taiwan, ROC; Institute of Medical Sciences, Tzu-Chi University, Hualien,
Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: dssun@mail.tcu.edu.tw.

Parkinson's disease (PD), among the most common neurodegenerative diseases
worldwide for which there is no cure, is characterized as progressive
dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra through an unknown mechanism.
Administering 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) causes
neuronal cell death and Parkinsonism in humans. Commonly used in animal models of
PD, MPTP can metabolize to 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)); however, the
detailed mechanism through which MPP(+) causes neuronal cell death remains
undetermined. Previous reports have indicated those knockout mice with Bcl-2
associated protein X (Bax) or caspase-2, two mitochondrial outer membrane
permeabilization inducers, are resistant to MPTP administration, suggesting that 
mitochondria are involved in MPP(+)-triggered apoptosis. Our previous study
showed that MPP(+)-triggered apoptosis can be distinguished from spontaneous
apoptosis of primary cortical neurons. In the present study, we verified the
involvement of mitochondria in MPP(+)-induced and spontaneous apoptosis in
cortical neurons through confocal microscope analysis. We demonstrated that
caspase-2 activation is specific to MPP(+)-induced apoptosis and occurs before
Bax translocation to the mitochondria. Caspase-2 activation is one of the few
early molecular events identified in PD models.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25645943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 27;290(13):8447-56. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.627463. Epub 2015
Feb 2.

Functional significance of point mutations in stress chaperone mortalin and their
relevance to Parkinson disease.

Wadhwa R(1), Ryu J(2), Ahn HM(2), Saxena N(1), Chaudhary A(1), Yun CO(3), Kaul
SC(4).

Author information: 
(1)From the Cell Proliferation Research Group and Department of Biotechnology
(DBT, India)-National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology
(AIST, Japan) International Laboratory for Advanced Biomedicine (DAILAB),
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8562, Japan and. (2)From the Cell Proliferation Research
Group and Department of Biotechnology (DBT, India)-National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology (AIST, Japan) International Laboratory for
Advanced Biomedicine (DAILAB), Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8562, Japan and the
Department of Bioengineering, College of Engineering, Hanyang University, 222
Wangsimni-Ro, Seongdong-Gu, Seoul 133-791, Korea. (3)the Department of
Bioengineering, College of Engineering, Hanyang University, 222 Wangsimni-Ro,
Seongdong-Gu, Seoul 133-791, Korea chaeok@hanyang.ac.kr. (4)From the Cell
Proliferation Research Group and Department of Biotechnology (DBT,
India)-National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST,
Japan) International Laboratory for Advanced Biomedicine (DAILAB), Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-8562, Japan and s-kaul@aist.go.jp.

Mortalin/mtHsp70/Grp75 (mot-2), a heat shock protein 70 family member, is an
essential chaperone, enriched in cancers, and has been shown to possess
pro-proliferative and anti-apoptosis functions. An allelic form of mouse mortalin
(mot-1) that differs by two amino acids, M618V and G624R, in the C terminus
substrate-binding domain has been reported. Furthermore, genome sequencing of
mortalin from Parkinson disease patients identified two missense mutants, R126W
and P509S. In the present study, we investigated the significance of these
mutations in survival, proliferation, and oxidative stress tolerance in human
cells. Using mot-1 and mot-2 recombinant proteins and specific antibodies, we
performed screening to find their binding proteins and then identified ribosomal 
protein L-7 (RPL-7) and elongation factor-1 α (EF-1α), which differentially bind 
to mot-1 and mot-2, respectively. We demonstrate that mot-1, R126W, or P509S
mutant (i) lacks mot-2 functions involved in carcinogenesis, such as p53
inactivation and hTERT/hnRNP-K (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K)
activation; (ii) causes increased level of endogenous oxidative stress; (iii)
results in decreased tolerance of cells to exogenous oxidative stress; and (iv)
shows differential binding and impact on the RPL-7 and EF-1α proteins. These
factors may mediate the transformation of longevity/pro-proliferative function of
mot-2 to the premature aging/anti-proliferative effect of mutants, and hence may 
have significance in cellular aging, Parkinson disease pathology, and prognosis.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4375496 [Available on 2016-03-27]
PMID: 25645922  [PubMed - in process]


672. J Neurochem. 2015 Apr;133(1):14-25. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13042. Epub 2015 Feb 25.

Rotenone decreases intracellular aldehyde dehydrogenase activity: implications
for the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.

Goldstein DS(1), Sullivan P, Cooney A, Jinsmaa Y, Kopin IJ, Sharabi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurocardiology Section, CNP/DIR/NINDS/NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Repeated systemic administration of the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor
rotenone produces a rodent model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Mechanisms of
relatively selective rotenone-induced damage to nigrostriatal dopaminergic
neurons remain incompletely understood. According to the 'catecholaldehyde
hypothesis,' buildup of the autotoxic dopamine metabolite
3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL) contributes to PD pathogenesis. Vesicular
uptake blockade increases DOPAL levels, and DOPAL is detoxified mainly by
aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). We tested whether rotenone interferes with
vesicular uptake and intracellular ALDH activity. Endogenous and F-labeled
catechols were measured in PC12 cells incubated with rotenone (0-1000 nM, 180
min), without or with F-dopamine (2 μM) to track vesicular uptake and
catecholamine metabolism. Rotenone dose dependently increased DOPAL, F-DOPAL, and
3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol (DOPET) levels while decreasing dopamine and
3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels and the ratio of dopamine to the
sum of its deaminated metabolites. In test tubes, rotenone did not affect
conversion of DOPAL to DOPAC by ALDH when NAD(+) was supplied, whereas the
direct-acting ALDH inhibitor benomyl markedly increased DOPAL and decreased DOPAC
concentrations in the reaction mixtures. We propose that rotenone builds up
intracellular DOPAL by decreasing ALDH activity and attenuating vesicular
sequestration of cytoplasmic catecholamines. The results provide a novel
mechanism for selective rotenone-induced toxicity in dopaminergic neurons. We
report that rotenone, a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor that produces an animal
model of Parkinson's disease, increases intracellular levels of the toxic
dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetaldehyde (DOPAL), via decreased DOPAL
metabolism by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and decreased vesicular sequestration
of cytoplasmic dopamine by the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT). The
results provide a novel mechanism for rotenone-induced toxicity in dopaminergic
neurons.

© 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMCID: PMC4361358 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25645689  [PubMed - in process]


673. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2015 Feb 3;3(1):9. doi: 10.1186/s40478-015-0189-z.

Loss of angiotensin II receptor expression in dopamine neurons in Parkinson's
disease correlates with pathological progression and is accompanied by increases 
in Nox4- and 8-OH guanosine-related nucleic acid oxidation and caspase-3
activation.

Zawada WM, Mrak RE, Biedermann J, Palmer QD, Gentleman SM, Aboud O, Griffin WS.

BACKGROUND: In rodent models of Parkinson's disease (PD), dopamine neuron loss is
accompanied by increased expression of angiotensin II (AngII), its type 1
receptor (AT1), and NADPH oxidase (Nox) in the nigral dopamine neurons and
microglia. AT1 blockers (ARBs) stymie such oxidative damage and neuron loss.
Whether changes in the AngII/AT1/Nox4 axis contribute to Parkinson
neuropathogenesis is unknown. Here, we studied the distribution of AT1 and Nox4
in dopamine neurons in two nigral subregions: the less affected calbindin-rich
matrix and the first-affected calbindin-poor nigrosome 1 of three patients, who
were clinically asymptomatic, but had nigral dopamine cell loss and Braak stages 
consistent with a neuropathological diagnosis of PD (prePD). For comparison, five
clinically- and neuropathologically-confirmed PD patients and seven age-matched
control patients (AMC) were examined.
RESULTS: AT1 and Nox4 immunoreactivity was noted in dopamine neurons in both the 
matrix and the nigrosome 1. The total cellular levels of AT1 in surviving
dopamine neurons in the matrix and nigrosome 1 declined from AMC>prePD>PD,
suggesting that an AngII/AT1/Nox4 axis orders neurodegenerative progression. In
this vein, the loss of dopamine neurons was paralleled by a decline in total AT1 
per surviving dopamine neuron. Similarly, AT1 in the nuclei of surviving neurons 
in the nigral matrix declined with disease progression, i.e., AMC>prePD>PD. In
contrast, in nigrosome 1, the expression of nuclear AT1 was unaffected and
similar in all groups. The ratio of nuclear AT1 to total AT1 (nuclear +
cytoplasmic + membrane) in dopamine neurons increased stepwise from AMC to prePD 
to PD. The proportional increase in nuclear AT1 in dopamine neurons in nigrosome 
1 of prePD and PD patients was accompanied by elevated nuclear expression of
Nox4, oxidative damage to DNA, and caspase-3-mediated cell loss.
CONCLUSIONS: Our observations are consistent with the idea that AngII/AT1/Nox4
axis-mediated oxidative stress gives rise to the dopamine neuron dysfunction and 
loss characteristic of the neuropathological and clinical manifestations of PD
and suggest that the chance for a neuron to survive increases in association with
lower total as well as nuclear AT1 expression. Our results support the need for
further evaluation of ARBs as disease-modifying agents in PD.

PMCID: PMC4359535
PMID: 25645462  [PubMed - in process]


674. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Jun;93:52-67. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.01.012. Epub
2015 Jan 31.

Activity of serotonin 5-HT1A receptor 'biased agonists' in rat models of
Parkinson's disease and l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

Iderberg H(1), McCreary AC(2), Varney MA(3), Cenci MA(4), Newman-Tancredi A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology Unit, Dept. Experimental Medical Sciences, Lund 
University, Sweden. Electronic address: Hanna.Iderberg@med.lu.se. (2)Brains
On-Line BV, Groningen, The Netherlands. (3)Neurolixis Inc., Dana Point, CA 92629,
USA. (4)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology Unit, Dept. Experimental Medical Sciences, 
Lund University, Sweden. Electronic address: Angela.Cenci_Nilsson@med.lu.se.

Serotonin 5-HT1A receptor agonists reduce l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) in
animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we compared the effects of novel
5-HT1A receptor 'biased agonists' on LID in hemiparkinsonian rats. F13714
preferentially activates pre-synaptic 5-HT1A autoreceptors. F15599 preferentially
activates cortical postsynaptic 5-HT1A heteroreceptors. The partial agonist,
tandospirone, does not differentiate these receptor subpopulations. The drugs
were also tested on rotational behavior, rotarod and cylinder test for evaluation
of locomotor activity, motor coordination and forelimb akinesia. Finally, the
effects of F13714 and F15599 on 5-HT, DA, glutamate, and GABA release were
investigated by microdialysis. F13714 abolished l-DOPA-induced AIMs even at very 
low doses (0.02-0.04 mg/kg). This effect was reversed by the selective 5-HT1A
receptor antagonist, WAY100635. F13714 also elicited ipsilateral rotations (which
were blocked by WAY100635) and potentiated the rotational activity of a
sub-threshold dose of l-DOPA (2 mg/kg). F13714 profoundly inhibited striatal 5-HT
release on both sides of the brain, and slightly increased DA release on the
intact side. F15599 inhibited the l-DOPA-induced AIMs only at a dose (0.16 mg/kg)
that reduced 5-HT release. Tandospirone produced a modest attenuation of peak
AIMs severity and did not elicit rotations. F13714, F15599 and tandospirone did
not modify the action of l-DOPA in the cylinder test but impaired rotarod
performance at the highest doses tested. Targeting 5-HT1A receptors with
selective biased agonists exerts distinct effects in the rat model of PD and LID.
Preferential activation of 5-HT1A autoreceptors could potentially translate to
superior antidyskinetic and l-DOPA dose-sparing effects in PD patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25645393  [PubMed - in process]


675. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 May;36(5):1878-91. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22743. Epub 2015 Jan 19.

Lateralization of brain activity pattern during unilateral movement in
Parkinson's disease.

Wu T(1), Hou Y, Hallett M, Zhang J, Chan P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Key Laboratory on Neurodegenerative Disorders of
Ministry of Education, Beijing Institute of Geriatrics, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China; Beijing Key Laboratory on Parkinson's
Disease, Parkinson Disease Center of Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders,
Beijing, China.

We investigated the lateralization of brain activity pattern during performance
of unilateral movement in drug-naïve Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with only 
right hemiparkinsonian symptoms. Functional MRI was obtained when the subjects
performed strictly unilateral right hand movement. A laterality index was
calculated to examine the lateralization. Patients had decreased activity in the 
left putamen and left supplementary motor area, but had increased activity in the
right primary motor cortex, right premotor cortex, left postcentral gyrus, and
bilateral cerebellum. The laterality index was significantly decreased in PD
patients compared with controls (0.41 ± 0.14 vs. 0.84 ± 0.09). The connectivity
from the left putamen to cortical motor regions and cerebellum was decreased,
while the interactions between the cortical motor regions, cerebellum, and right 
putamen were increased. Our study demonstrates that in early PD, the
lateralization of brain activity during unilateral movement is significantly
reduced. The dysfunction of the striatum-cortical circuit, decreased
transcallosal inhibition, and compensatory efforts from cortical motor regions,
cerebellum, and the less affected striatum are likely reasons contributing to the
reduced motor lateralization. The disruption of the lateralized brain activity
pattern might be a reason underlying some motor deficits in PD, like mirror
movements or impaired bilateral motor coordination. Hum Brain Mapp 36:1878-1891, 
2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25644527  [PubMed - in process]


676. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Feb 3. doi: 10.1111/ane.12375. [Epub ahead of print]

Cognitive function in the early phase of Parkinson's disease, a five-year
follow-up.

Domellöf ME(1), Ekman U, Forsgren L, Elgh E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Neuroscience, Umeå University, Umeå,
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Presence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as a predictor for
Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) has been discussed from a clinical
perspective. Recently, a Movement Disorder Society (MDS) commissioned Task Force 
published guidelines for PD-MCI. However, long-term follow-ups of the PD-MCI
guidelines for the prediction of PDD have been sparse.
METHOD: In a community-based cohort of PD, the MDS guidelines for PD-MCI and
consensus criteria for PDD were applied on 147 subjects. The predictive ability
of PD-MCI for PDD was investigated. Additionally, baseline comparisons were
conducted between MCI that converted to PDD and those who did not, and evolvement
of motor function was investigated.
RESULTS: One fourth of the population developed PDD. MCI and age at baseline
predicted later occurrence of PDD, and baseline results of tests measuring
episodic memory, visuospatial function, semantic fluency, and mental flexibility 
differed between MCI converters and non-converters. Postural instability/gait
(PIGD) phenotype and education did not predict later occurrence of PDD, but
increased postural/gait disturbances were shown across time in those developing
dementia.
CONCLUSION: The new PD-MCI guidelines are useful to detect patients at risk for
developing PDD. The PIGD phenotype at diagnosis was not a predictor of PDD within
5 years, but the study supports a temporal association between postural/gait
disturbances and PDD. Older patients with PD-MCI at baseline with decline in
episodic memory, semantic fluency, and mental flexibility need to be carefully
monitored regarding cognition and likely also for fall risk.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25644230  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


677. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 May;131(5):275-81. doi: 10.1111/ane.12365. Epub 2015 Feb 
3.

Cognitive performances and DAT imaging in early Parkinson's disease with mild
cognitive impairment: a preliminary study.

Pellecchia MT(1), Picillo M, Santangelo G, Longo K, Moccia M, Erro R, Amboni M,
Vitale C, Vicidomini C, Salvatore M, Barone P, Pappatà S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a common feature in Parkinson's
disease (PD). We performed an exploratory study to investigate dopaminergic
nigrostriatal innervation and its cognitive correlates in early untreated PD
patients with MCI as compared to cognitively intact patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A consecutive series of 34-de-novo, drug-naïve patients
with PD were enrolled. They underwent [123-I] FP-CIT SPECT and comprehensive
neuropsychological battery. MCI was identified in 15 of 34 patients with PD.
RESULTS: The two groups did not show any statistically significant difference in 
age, sex, disease duration, education, lateralization, and H&Y and Hospital
Anxiety and Depression Scale scores. Logistic regression analysis showed that
UPDRS-III was weakly associated with MCI (P = 0.034). Partial correlation
analysis controlling for UPDRS-III and age suggested that in PD patients with MCI
reduced V3″ values in the more affected caudate were correlated with reduced
performances in frontal assessment battery, Trail Making Test: part B minus Part 
A and copy task of the Rey-Osterrieth complex figure test. Reduced V3″ values in 
the more and less affected putamen were significantly related with reduced
performance in frontal assessment battery and in copy task of Rey-Osterrieth
complex figure test, respectively. No correlation was found between
neuropsychological scores and DAT availability in PD patients without MCI.
CONCLUSIONS: Although preliminary, our results suggest that striatal dopamine
depletion may contribute to some cognitive deficit in early never treated PD
patients with MCI.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25644029  [PubMed - in process]


678. Gac Med Mex. 2014 Dec;150 Suppl 2:242-7.

[Time from motor symptoms onset to diagnosis of Parkinson's disease in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Cervantes Arriaga A(1), Rodríguez Violante M(1), Camacho Ordóñez A(1), González
Latapi P(1), López Ruiz M(2), Estrada Bellmann I(3), Zúñiga Ramírez C(4), Otero
Cerdeira E(5).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía, México, D.F. (2)Hospital
General de México, México, D.F. (3)Hospital Universitario «José E. González»,
Monterrey. (4)Hospital Civil, Guadalajara. (5)Hospital Español, México D.F.

INTRODUCTION: Parkinson's disease is characterized by a wide spectrum of motor
and non-motor symptoms with an insidious onset. Identification of these symptoms 
by the patient as well as by the physician is determinant in order to achieve an 
early diagnosis.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the time from motor symptoms onset to the diagnosis of
Parkinson's disease and analyze the clinical and demographic factors related to
it.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study was carried out including subjects 
with Parkinson's disease seen during the 2011-2012 period and belonging to the
Mexican National Parkinson's Registry. Time from symptom onset to the diagnosis
was collected; its relation with demographic and clinical characteristics was
assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 1,062 subjects were included. Delay in diagnosis was 29.5
months. Predictive factors for a longer diagnostic delay were symptoms onset
before 40 years of age (B: -0.350; p < 0.001) and a positive family history of
Parkinson's disease (B: 0.224; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnosis of Parkinson´s disease in Mexico is two and a half
times greater than what has been reported for other countries.

PMID: 25643785  [PubMed - in process]


679. Nat Chem Biol. 2015 Mar;11(3):229-34. doi: 10.1038/nchembio.1750. Epub 2015 Feb
2.

Lipid vesicles trigger α-synuclein aggregation by stimulating primary nucleation.

Galvagnion C(1), Buell AK(1), Meisl G(1), Michaels TC(1), Vendruscolo M(1),
Knowles TP(1), Dobson CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Chem Biol. 2015 Mar;11(3):176-7.

α-Synuclein (α-syn) is a 140-residue intrinsically disordered protein that is
involved in neuronal and synaptic vesicle plasticity, but its aggregation to form
amyloid fibrils is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). The interaction
between α-syn and lipid surfaces is believed to be a key feature for mediation of
its normal function, but under other circumstances it is able to modulate amyloid
fibril formation. Using a combination of experimental and theoretical approaches,
we identify the mechanism through which facile aggregation of α-syn is induced
under conditions where it binds a lipid bilayer, and we show that the rate of
primary nucleation can be enhanced by three orders of magnitude or more under
such conditions. These results reveal the key role that membrane interactions can
have in triggering conversion of α-syn from its soluble state to the aggregated
state that is associated with neurodegeneration and to its associated disease
states.

PMID: 25643172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Appl Sci (Basel). 2014 Mar 17;4(1):66-78.

Radiosynthesis and in Vivo Evaluation of Two PET Radioligands for Imaging
α-Synuclein.

Zhang X(1), Jin H(1), Padakanti PK(1), Li J(1), Yang H(1), Fan J(1), Mach RH(1), 
Kotzbauer P(2), Tu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, 510 S.
Kingshighway Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. (2)Department of Neurology,
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO 63110,
USA.

Two α-synuclein ligands, 3-methoxy-7-nitro-10H-phenothiazine (2a, Ki = 32.1 ± 1.3
nM) and 3-(2-fluoroethoxy)-7-nitro-10H-phenothiazine (2b, Ki = 49.0 ± 4.9 nM),
were radiolabeled as potential PET imaging agents by respectively introducing
(11)C and (18)F. The syntheses of [(11)C]2a and [(18)F]2b were accomplished in a 
good yield with high specific activity. Ex vivo biodistribution studies in rats
revealed that both [(11)C]2a and [(18)F]2b crossed the blood-brain barrier (BBB) 
and demonstrated good brain uptake 5 min post-injection. MicroPET imaging of
[(11)C]2a in a non-human primate (NHP) confirmed that the tracer was able to
cross the BBB with rapid washout kinetics from brain regions of a healthy
macaque. The initial studies suggested that further structural optimization of
[(11)C]2a and [(18)F]2b is necessary in order to identify a highly specific
positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand for in vivo imaging of α-synuclein
aggregation in the central nervous system (CNS).

PMCID: PMC4310556
PMID: 25642331  [PubMed]


681. Front Aging Neurosci. 2015 Jan 15;6:350. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00350.
eCollection 2014.

Apathy in Parkinson's disease is related to executive function, gender and age
but not to depression.

Meyer A(1), Zimmermann R(1), Gschwandtner U(1), Hatz F(1), Bousleiman H(2),
Schwarz N(1), Fuhr P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Hospital of the University 
of Basel Basel, Switzerland. (2)Clinical Neurophysiology, Department of
Neurology, Hospital of the University of Basel Basel, Switzerland ; Epidemiology 
and Public Health, Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, University of
Basel Basel, Switzerland.

Deficits in executive functions occur in up to 93% of patients with Parkinson's
disease (PD). Apathy, a reduction of motivation and goal-directed behavior is an 
important part of the syndrome; affecting both the patients as well as their
social environment. Executive functions can be subdivided into three different
processes: initiation, shifting and inhibition. We examined the hypotheses, (1)
that apathy in patients with Parkinson's disease is only related to initiation
and not to shifting and inhibition, and (2) that depression and severity of motor
signs correlate with apathy. Fifty-one non-demented patients (19 = female) with
PD were evaluated for apathy, depression and executive functions. Executive
function variables were summarized with an index variable according to the
defined executive processes. Linear regression with stepwise elimination
procedure was used to select significant predictors. The significant model (R (2)
= 0.41; p < 0.01) revealed influences of initiation (b = -0.79; p < 0.01), gender
(b = -7.75; p < 0.01), age (b = -0.07; p < 0.05) and an age by gender interaction
(b = 0.12; p < 0.01) on apathy in Parkinson's disease. Motor signs, depression
and level of education did not influence the relation. These results support an
association of apathy and deficits of executive function in PD. Initiation
strongly correlates with apathy, whereas depression does not. We conclude, that
initiation dysfunction in a patient with Parkinson's disease heralds apathy.
Apathy and depression can be dissociated. Additionally, apathy is influenced by
age and gender: older age correlates with apathy in men, whereas in women it
seems to protect against it.

PMCID: PMC4295432
PMID: 25642187  [PubMed]


682. J Phys Ther Sci. 2015 Jan;27(1):145-7. doi: 10.1589/jpts.27.145. Epub 2015 Jan 9.

Effect of virtual reality dance exercise on the balance, activities of daily
living, and depressive disorder status of Parkinson's disease patients.

Lee NY(1), Lee DK(2), Song HS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Graduate School of Physical Therapy, Daejeon
University, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Physical Therapy, Yeol-Lin
Hospital, Republic of Korea.

[Purpose] In this study, we examined the effects of virtual reality dance
exercise on the balance, activities of daily living and depressive disorder
status of Parkinson's disease patients. [Subjects] Twenty patients were assigned 
either the experimental group (n = 10) or the control group (n = 10). All
participants received 30 minutes of neurodevelopment treatment and 15 minutes of 
functional electrical stimulation 5 times per week for 6 weeks. The experimental 
group additionally performed 30 minutes of dance exercise. Balance, activities of
daily living, and depressive disorder status were assessed before and after the
6-week treatment period using the Berg balance scale, the Modified Barthel Index,
and the Beck Depression Inventory. The paired t-test was used to detect
differences before and after treatment, and the independent t-test was used to
detect differences between the treatment groups. [Results] The values for
balance, activities of daily living, and depressive disorder status significantly
differed between before and after treatment in the experimental group, and
significantly differed between the experimental group and control group.
[Conclusion] Virtual reality dance exercise has a positive effect on balance,
activities of daily living, and depressive disorder status of Parkinson's disease
patients.

PMCID: PMC4305547
PMID: 25642060  [PubMed]


683. Small. 2015 Jan 15. doi: 10.1002/smll.201402674. [Epub ahead of print]

Alpha-Synuclein Amyloid Oligomers Act as Multivalent Nanoparticles to Cause
Hemifusion in Negatively Charged Vesicles.

Stefanovic AN(1), Claessens MM, Blum C, Subramaniam V.

Author information: 
(1)Nanobiophysics, MESA+ Institute for Nanotechnology, Faculty of Science and
Technology, University of Twente, PO Box 217, 7500, AE, Enschede, The
Netherlands.

Multivalent membrane binding sites on the α-synuclein oligomer result in
clustering of vesicles and hemifusion of negatively charged model membranes.
These multivalent, biological nanoparticles are reminiscent of inorganic
nanoparticles in their interactions with membranes. Alpha-synuclein oligomers
induce lipid exchange efficiently, with fewer than 10 oligomers/vesicle required 
to complete hemifusion. No full fusion or vesicle content mixing is observed.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

PMID: 25641873  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


684. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):593-6. doi: 10.1002/mds.26136. Epub 2015 Jan 16.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and bacterial pneumonia in patients with
Parkinson disease.

Wang HC(1), Lin CC, Lau CI, Chang A, Kao CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Shin Kong Wu Ho-Su Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan;
College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; College of
Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the association of angiotensin-converting enzyme
inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers with pneumonia development in
patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: The study cohort consisted of patients aged 50 years or older who were
initially diagnosed with PD and had hypertension. We assessed the patients'
exposure statuses and accumulated doses of angiotensin-converting enzyme
inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. We then evaluated the risk of
pneumonia development in the patients who were exposed to these drugs and those
who were not.
RESULTS: We examined 2,310 patients. During the observation period, 608 patients 
developed pneumonia. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors were associated
with a lower risk of pneumonia. This association was dose-dependent.
CONCLUSION: Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor use was associated with a
dose-dependent reduction in the risk of pneumonia in patients with PD and
hypertension. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25641619  [PubMed - in process]


685. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Feb 15;349(1-2):168-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.01.012. Epub
2015 Jan 13.

Nonmotor symptoms in essential tremor: Comparison with Parkinson's disease and
normal control.

Lee SM(1), Kim M(1), Lee HM(1), Kwon KY(1), Koh SB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Neurology, Korea 
University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic
of Korea. Electronic address: parkinson@korea.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Recently, the definition of essential tremor (ET) has evolved to have
two different meanings. One refers to classic ET, a benign mono-symptomatic
disorder, and the other refers to a heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder. The
aim of this study was to categorize nonmotor symptoms according to ET phenotype, 
and compare them, along with autonomic function, in people with Parkinson's
disease (PD) and normal controls.
METHODS: We divided patients with ET into 3 subtypes according to their motor
features: 23 Pure-ET, 25 Cerebellar-ET, and 12 Parkinsonism-ET. Comparisons were 
made between 30 PD subjects and 22 normal controls, and 60 subjects with ET. The 
following assessments were conducted: the Nonmotor Symptoms Scale, the
Mini-Mental State Exam, Montreal Cognitive Assessment, the Montgomery-Asberg
Depression Rating Scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire, Beck Anxiety
Inventory, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Epworth Sleepiness Scale and the
Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's Disease-Autonomic.
RESULTS: There were significant differences in the Nonmotor Symptoms Scale total 
scores of the ET, PD, and control groups (ET: 25.500 ± 2.346; PD: 27.960 ± 3.267;
CONTROL: 3.328 ± 3.796.). There were no significant differences in terms of each 
ET phenotype. ET patients had significant cognitive dysfunction, neuropsychiatric
problems including depression and have complained about significant autonomic
dysfunction and excessive daytime somnolence compared to normal controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with ET have several nonmotor symptoms similar to those of 
patients with PD, which have a similar impact on their quality of life.
Therefore, nonmotor symptoms should be considered in the clinical evaluation and 
management of ET.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25641389  [PubMed - in process]


686. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb;30(2):160-6. doi: 10.1002/mds.26135. Epub 2015 Jan 14.

[¹¹C]-(+)-PHNO PET imaging of dopamine D(2/3) receptors in Parkinson's disease
with impulse control disorders.

Payer DE(1), Guttman M, Kish SJ, Tong J, Strafella A, Zack M, Adams JR, Rusjan P,
Houle S, Furukawa Y, Wilson AA, Boileau I.

Author information: 
(1)Addictions Program, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Research Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Dopamine agonist medications with high affinity for the D3 dopamine receptor are 
commonly used to treat Parkinson's disease, and have been associated with
pathological behaviors categorized under the umbrella of impulse control
disorders (ICD). The aim of this study was to investigate whether ICD in
Parkinson's patients are associated with greater D3 dopamine receptor
availability. We used positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand imaging with
the D3 dopamine receptor preferring agonist
[¹¹C]-(+)-propyl-hexahydro-naphtho-oxazin (PHNO) in Parkinson's patients with
(n = 11) and without (n = 21) ICD, and age-, sex-, and education-matched healthy 
control subjects (n = 18). Contrary to hypotheses, [¹¹C]-(+)-PHNO binding in D3
-rich brain areas was not elevated in Parkinson's patients with ICD compared with
those without; instead, [¹¹C]-(+)-PHNO binding in ventral striatum was 20% lower 
(P = 0.011), correlating with two measures of ICD severity (r = -0.8 and -0.9),
which may reflect higher dopamine tone in ventral striatum. In dorsal striatum,
where [¹¹C]-(+)-PHNO binding is associated with D2 receptor levels,
[¹¹C]-(+)-PHNO binding was elevated across patients compared with controls. We
conclude that although D3 dopamine receptors have been linked to the occurrence
of ICD in Parkinson's patients. Our findings do not support the hypothesis that
D3 receptor levels are elevated in Parkinson's patients with ICD. We also did not
find ICD-related abnormalities in D2 receptor levels. Our findings argue against 
the possibility that differences in D2/3 receptor levels can account for the
development of ICD in PD; however, we cannot rule out that differences in
dopamine levels (particularly in ventral striatum) may be involved.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25641350  [PubMed - in process]


687. Mov Disord. 2015 Jan 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26133. [Epub ahead of print]

Freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease is related to impaired motor switching
during stepping.

Smulders K(1), Esselink RA, Bloem BR, Cools R.

Author information: 
(1)Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour; Department of Neurology, 6500, HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; HAN
University of Applied Sciences; Institute for Studies in Sports and Exercise,
6503 GL, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Parkinson's disease (PD) has been associated with set switching difficulty in
both the motor and the cognitive domain. However, the contribution of these set
switching deficits to the primary motor symptoms of the disease is unclear. We
investigated whether set switching deficits contribute to gait and stepping
problems in PD. By contrasting motor and cognitive set switching within the same 
paradigm, we investigated the nature of set switching deficits associated with
freezing of gait (FOG). We integrated step initiation with set switching within
one task and compared patients with and without FOG with healthy subjects. Motor 
set switching was defined as a change in stepping direction from one trial to the
next. Cognitive set switching was defined as a change in task rule (ie, respond
according to the shape or color of the presented stimulus). We found delayed
motor switching in PD patients with FOG. We did not observe impaired cognitive
switching. These findings suggest that motor set switching deficits, commonly
reported in tasks using verbal or tapping responses, extend to stepping and can
contribute to the occurrence of freezing episodes during gait initiation. © 2015 
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25641204  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


688. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 May;36(5):1937-50. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22747. Epub 2015 Jan 30.

Resting state functional connectivity of the subthalamic nucleus in Parkinson's
disease assessed using arterial spin-labeled perfusion fMRI.

Fernández-Seara MA(1), Mengual E, Vidorreta M, Castellanos G, Irigoyen J, Erro E,
Pastor MA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimaging Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, Center for Applied Medical 
Research (CIMA), University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; CIBERNED, Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, Instituto de
Salud Carlos III, Spain.

Neurophysiological changes within the cortico-basal ganglia-thalamocortical
circuits appear to be a characteristic of Parkinson's disease (PD)
pathophysiology. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is one of the basal ganglia
components showing pathological neural activity patterns in PD. In this study,
perfusion imaging data, acquired noninvasively using arterial spin-labeled (ASL) 
perfusion MRI, were used to assess the resting state functional connectivity (FC)
of the STN in 24 early-to-moderate PD patients and 34 age-matched healthy
controls, to determine whether altered FC in the very low frequency range of the 
perfusion time signal occurs as a result of the disease. Our results showed that 
the healthy STN was functionally connected with other nuclei of the basal ganglia
and the thalamus, as well as with discrete cortical areas including the insular
cortex and the hippocampus. In PD patients, connectivity of the STN was increased
with two cortical areas involved in motor and cognitive processes. These findings
suggest that hyperconnectivity of the STN could underlie some of the motor and
cognitive deficits often present even at early stages of the disease. The FC
measures provided good discrimination between controls and patients, suggesting
that ASL-derived FC metrics could be a putative PD biomarker. Hum Brain Mapp
36:1937-1950, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25641065  [PubMed - in process]


689. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):567-76. doi: 10.1002/mds.26130. Epub 2015 Jan 16.

Microstructural changes in white matter associated with freezing of gait in
Parkinson's disease.

Vercruysse S(1), Leunissen I, Vervoort G, Vandenberghe W, Swinnen S, Nieuwboer A.

Author information: 
(1)Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Leuven,
Belgium.

In Parkinson's disease (PD), freezing of gait (FOG) is associated with widespread
functional and structural gray matter changes throughout the brain. Previous
study of freezing-related white matter changes was restricted to brainstem and
cerebellar locomotor tracts. This study was undertaken to determine the spatial
distribution of white matter damage associated with FOG by combining whole brain 
and striatofrontal seed-based diffusion tensor imaging. Diffusion-weighted images
were collected in 26 PD patients and 16 age-matched controls. Parkinson's disease
groups with (n = 11) and without freezing of gait (n = 15) were matched for age
and disease severity. We applied tract-based spatial statistics to compare
fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity of white matter structure across the
whole brain between groups. Probabilistic tractography was used to evaluate
fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity of key subcortico-cortical tracts.
Tract-based spatial statistics revealed decreased fractional anisotropy in PD
with FOG in bilateral cerebellar and superior longitudinal fascicle clusters.
Increased mean diffusivity values were apparent in the right internal capsule,
superior frontal cortex, anterior corona radiata, the left anterior thalamic
radiation, and cerebellum. Tractography showed consistent white matter
alterations in striatofrontal tracts through the putamen, caudate, pallidum,
subthalamic nucleus, and in connections of the cerebellar peduncle with
subthalamic nucleus and pedunculopontine nucleus bilaterally. We conclude that
FOG is associated with diffuse white matter damage involving major
cortico-cortical, corticofugal motor, and several striatofrontal tracts in
addition to previously described cerebello-pontine connectivity changes. These
distributed white matter abnormalities may contribute to the motor and non-motor 
correlates of FOG. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25640958  [PubMed - in process]


690. Life Sci. 2015 Mar 1;124:136-43. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2015.01.014. Epub 2015 Jan
30.

Protection of MPTP-induced neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration by
rotigotine-loaded microspheres.

Yu X(1), Yao JY(2), He J(3), Tian JW(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Yantai University, Yantai 264005, PR China. Electronic
address: xin523@sina.com. (2)School of Pharmacy, Yantai University, Yantai
264005, PR China. (3)State Key Laboratory of Long-acting and Targeting Drug
Delivery Technologies, Yantai 264003, PR China. (4)School of Pharmacy, Yantai
University, Yantai 264005, PR China; State Key Laboratory of Long-acting and
Targeting Drug Delivery Technologies, Yantai 264003, PR China. Electronic
address: Tianjingwei@luye.cn.

AIMS: The aim of the study is to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of
continuous dopaminergic stimulation (CDS) by rotigotine-loaded microspheres
(RoMS) in a mouse model of MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) and to elucidate
the potential mechanism underlying these effects.
MAIN METHODS: Male C57BL/6 mice were treated either intramuscularly once with
RoMS or twice daily for two weeks with rotigotine, and from the 9th day, MPTP (30
mg/kg, i.p.) was injected for the last 5 days. Following treatment, Parkinsonism 
scores were calculated and oxidative stress-related indicators in the striatum
were performed. Neuroinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α
(TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) were detected in the
striatum. Expression of apoptosis-related proteins B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 2
(Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (BAX) was measured in the striatum by
Western blot. Nigral tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons and microglial
cell markers, i.e., ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule-1 (Iba-1) and
neuronal synaptosomes, were quantified to assess the neuroprotective efficacy of 
RoMS.
KEY FINDINGS: The administration of rotigotine significantly improved the
Parkinsonism score, protected dopaminergic neurons with antioxidants, reduced
microglial cell activation and the release of neuroinflammatory cytokines, and
balanced the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax in MPTP-treated mice. Interestingly, the
neuroprotective properties of rotigotine were remarkably amplified by CDS
treatment with RoMS.
SIGNIFICANCE: These results suggest that CDS therapy can play a neuroprotective
role in an MPTP mouse model. Neuroprotective disease-modifying therapy may have
the potential benefits of early treatment by normalizing compensatory mechanisms 
and may also help to delay dyskinesia in the later stages of PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25640758  [PubMed - in process]


691. Am J Hum Genet. 2015 Feb 5;96(2):301-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2014.12.016. Epub
2015 Jan 29.

A recurrent mutation in PARK2 is associated with familial lung cancer.

Xiong D(1), Wang Y(1), Kupert E(2), Simpson C(3), Pinney SM(4), Gaba CR(5),
Mandal D(6), Schwartz AG(7), Yang P(8), de Andrade M(8), Pikielny C(9), Byun
J(9), Li Y(9), Stambolian D(10), Spitz MR(11), Liu Y(11), Amos CI(9),
Bailey-Wilson JE(3), Anderson M(2), You M(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical College of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA; Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee,
WI 53226, USA. (2)Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI
53226, USA; Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI
53226, USA. (3)Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch, National Human
Genome Research Institute, NIH, Baltimore, MD 20892, USA. (4)Department of
Environmental Health, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, 
OH 45267, USA. (5)College of Medicine, University of Toledo, Toledo, OH 43614,
USA. (6)Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA 70112,
USA. (7)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. (8)Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN 55905, USA. (9)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Geisel 
School of Medicine, Dartmouth College, Lebanon, NH 03755, USA. (10)Department of 
Ophthalmology and Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104,
USA. (11)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. (12)Department of
Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226,
USA; Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA.
Electronic address: myou@mcw.edu.

PARK2, a gene associated with Parkinson disease, is a tumor suppressor in human
malignancies. Here, we show that c.823C>T (p.Arg275Trp), a germline mutation in
PARK2, is present in a family with eight cases of lung cancer. The resulting
amino acid change, p.Arg275Trp, is located in the highly conserved RING finger 1 
domain of PARK2, which encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase. Upon further analysis, the
c.823C>T mutation was detected in three additional families affected by lung
cancer. The effect size for PARK2 c.823C>T (odds ratio = 5.24) in white
individuals was larger than those reported for variants from lung cancer
genome-wide association studies. These data implicate this PARK2 germline
mutation as a genetic susceptibility factor for lung cancer. Our results provide 
a rationale for further investigations of this specific mutation and gene for
evaluation of the possibility of developing targeted therapies against lung
cancer in individuals with PARK2 variants by compensating for the
loss-of-function effect caused by the associated variation.

Copyright © 2015 The American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4320264 [Available on 2015-08-05]
PMID: 25640678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 May;36(5):1716-27. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22732. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

Olfactory performance and resting state functional connectivity in non-demented
drug naïve patients with Parkinson's disease.

Sunwoo MK(1), Cha J, Ham JH, Song SK, Hong JY, Lee JM, Sohn YH, Lee PH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Bundang Jesaeng General Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.

Olfactory performance in Parkinson's disease (PD) is closely associated with
subsequent cognitive decline. In the present study, we analyzed the
olfaction-dependent functional connectivity with a hypothesis that olfactory
performance would influence functional connectivity within key brain areas of PD.
A total of 110 nondemented drug-naïve patients with PD were subdivided into three
groups of high score (PD-H, n = 23), middle score (PD-M, n = 64), and low score
(PD-L, n = 23) based on olfactory performance. We performed the resting-state
functional connectivity with seed region of interest in the posterior cingulate
cortex (PCC) and caudate. An analysis of functional connectivity revealed that
PD-L patients exhibited a significant attenuation of cortical functional
connectivity with the PCC in the bilateral primary sensory areas, right frontal
areas, and right parietal areas compared to PD-H or PD-M patients. Meanwhile,
PD-L patients exhibited a significant enhancement of striatocortical functional
connectivity in the bilateral occipital areas and right frontal areas compared to
PD-H or PD-M patients. In the voxel-wise correlation analysis, olfactory
performance was positively associated with cortical functional connectivity with 
the PCC in similar areas of attenuated cortical connectivity in PD-L patients
relative to PD-H patients. On the other hand, the cortical functional
connectivity with the caudate was negatively correlated with olfactory
performance in similar areas of increased connectivity in PD-L patients relative 
to PD-H patients. The present study demonstrated that resting state functional
connectivity exhibits a distinctive pattern depending on olfactory performance,
which might shed light on a meaningful relationship between olfactory impairment 
and cognitive dysfunction in PD. Hum Brain Mapp 36:1716-1727, 2015. © 2014 Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25640661  [PubMed - in process]


693. Heart Rhythm. 2015 May;12(5):917-25. doi: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2015.01.042. Epub 2015 
Jan 29.

Cryotherapy ablation of parahisian accessory pathways in children.

Swissa M(1), Birk E(2), Dagan T(2), Fogelman M(2), Einbinder T(2), Bruckheimer
E(2), Goldenberg I(3), Klempfner R(3), Kirsh JA(4), Fogelman R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.
Electronic address: swissam@mail.huji.ac.il. (2)Schneider Children's Hospital in 
Israel, Petach Tikva, and Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel
Aviv, Israel. (3)Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, and Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. (4)Labatt Family Heart Centre
and Department of Pediatrics, Hospital for Sick Children and University of
Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Because of its safety profile, cryoablation has become an alternative
therapy for septal arrhythmias, including parahisian accessory pathways (APs).
Data regarding its efficacy, safety, and late outcome for parahisian APs in
children are limited.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
cryoablation of parahisian APs in children.
METHODS: Fifty-nine cryoablations of parahisian APs were performed in 50 patients
[76% males; median age 16.5 years (range 5.3-20 years)]. Thirty-three had
manifest APs and 17 had concealed APs. The time to effect was defined as the
duration of time from reaching -30°C to the disappearance of AP during the
cryomapping phase. The acute success rate for the first ablation was 94% (47/50).
RESULTS: Mean fluoroscopy time and number of cryoablations were 28.5 ± 23.3
minutes and 2.6 ± 1.2 seconds, respectively. The time to effect was 8.5 ± 7.1
seconds. The overall recurrence rate was 14.9%, decreasing from 40% in the first 
10 cases to 8.1% in the next 37 (P <.02). Multivariate analysis showed that the
only independent predictor for recurrence rate was time to effect <10 seconds (P 
<.001). A high recurrence rate was also associated with concealed APs and
ablation during supraventricular tachycardia (P <.03 and P <.05, respectively).
The patients who had recurrence underwent a second successful cryoablation.
During median follow-up of 59.7 months (range 6-102 months), a long-term success 
rate of 94% was achieved. No permanent ablation-related complications occurred.
CONCLUSION: Cryoablation of parahisian APs has excellent short- and long-term
efficacy and safety profile. Increased physician experience is associated with a 
reduced recurrence rate.

Copyright © 2015 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25640635  [PubMed - in process]


694. J Control Release. 2015 Mar 28;202:57-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.01.037.
Epub 2015 Jan 30.

Biomaterial modification of urinary catheters with antimicrobials to give
long-term broadspectrum antibiofilm activity.

Fisher LE(1), Hook AL(2), Ashraf W(3), Yousef A(4), Barrett DA(5), Scurr DJ(6),
Chen X(7), Smith EF(8), Fay M(9), Parmenter CD(10), Parkinson R(11), Bayston
R(12).

Author information: 
(1)Biomaterials-Related Infection Group, School of Medicine, Nottingham
University Hospitals, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK. Electronic 
address: le.fisher@btinternet.com. (2)Laboratory of Biophysics and Surface
Analysis, School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
Electronic address: Andrew.hook@nottingham.ac.uk. (3)Biomaterials-Related
Infection Group, School of Medicine, Nottingham University Hospitals, Queen's
Medical Centre, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK. Electronic address:
waheed.ashraf@nottingham.ac.uk. (4)Biomaterials-Related Infection Group, School
of Medicine, Nottingham University Hospitals, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham 
NG7 2UH, UK. Electronic address: anfalyousef@gmail.com. (5)Centre for Analytical 
Bioscience, School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
Electronic address: david.barrett@nottingham.ac.uk. (6)Laboratory of Biophysics
and Surface Analysis, School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, UK. Electronic address: david.scurr@nottingham.ac.uk. (7)Laboratory of
Biophysics and Surface Analysis, School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham,
Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. Electronic address: x.chen@nottingham.ac.uk.
(8)Nottingham Nanotechnology & Nanoscience Centre, University of Nottingham,
Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. Electronic address: Emily.smith@nottingham.ac.uk.
(9)Nottingham Nanotechnology & Nanoscience Centre, University of Nottingham,
Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. Electronic address: Michael.fay@nottingham.ac.uk.
(10)Nottingham Nanotechnology & Nanoscience Centre, University of Nottingham,
Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. Electronic address:
Christopher.parmenter@nottingham.ac.uk. (11)Nottingham Urology Centre, Nottingham
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham NG5 1PB, UK. Electronic address:
Richard.parkinson@nuh.nhs.uk. (12)Biomaterials-Related Infection Group, School of
Medicine, Nottingham University Hospitals, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham NG7
2UH, UK. Electronic address: roger.bayston@nottingham.ac.uk.

Catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) is the commonest
hospital-acquired infection, accounting for over 100,000 hospital admissions
within the USA annually. Biomaterials and processes intended to reduce the risk
of bacterial colonization of the catheters for long-term users have not been
successful, mainly because of the need for long duration of activity in flow
conditions. Here we report the results of impregnation of urinary catheters with 
a combination of rifampicin, sparfloxacin and triclosan. In flow experiments, the
antimicrobial catheters were able to prevent colonization by common uropathogens 
Proteus mirabilis, Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli for 7 to 12weeks in
vitro compared with 1-3days for other, commercially available antimicrobial
catheters currently used clinically. Resistance development was minimized by
careful choice of antimicrobial combinations. Drug release profiles and
distribution in the polymer, and surface analysis were also carried out and the
process had no deleterious effect on the mechanical performance of the catheter
or its balloon. The antimicrobial catheter therefore offers for the first time a 
means of reducing infection and its complications in long-term urinary catheter
users.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25639970  [PubMed - in process]


695. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1111/ane.12380. [Epub ahead of print]

Psychometric properties of the Satisfaction With Life Scale in Parkinson's
disease.

Rosengren L(1), Jonasson SB, Brogårdh C, Lexell J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Rehabilitation Medicine Research Group, Lund
University, Lund, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS) is a global measure of life
satisfaction (LS). The objective of this study was to evaluate the psychometric
properties (data completeness, scaling assumptions, targeting and reliability) of
the SWLS in a sample of people with Parkinson's disease (PD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A postal survey including a Swedish version of the SWLS
and demographic information was administered to 174 persons with PD; 97 responded
and received a second survey after 2 weeks.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age and PD duration of the 97 responders were 73 (8) and 7
(6) years, respectively. Data completeness was 92% to 97% for the five items in
the SWLS and 92% for the total score (5-35 points). The mean score of the SWLS
was 24.2 points (7.7), indicating that this group had an average LS. The items'
means and SDs were roughly parallel and the score distribution was even. The
internal consistency reliability (Cronbach's alpha) was 0.90. The test-retest
reliability, assessed by the intraclass correlation coefficient, was 0.78. The
scale showed no systematic difference between the first and second response. The 
standard error of measurement was 3.6 points, and the smallest detectable
difference was 10.0 points.
CONCLUSIONS: This evaluation of the psychometric properties of the SWLS shows
that the scale has good data completeness, scaling assumptions and targeting and 
that the internal consistency reliability and the test-retest reliability are
acceptable. Thus, the SWLS is a psychometrically sound and suitable tool to asses
LS in people with PD.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25639961  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


696. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):178-88. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.009. Epub
2015 Jan 29.

Impaired intracellular trafficking defines early Parkinson's disease.

Hunn BH(1), Cragg SJ(1), Bolam JP(2), Spillantini MG(3), Wade-Martins R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre, University of Oxford, South Parks Road,
Oxford OX1 3QX, UK; Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of
Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK. (2)Oxford Parkinson's Disease
Centre, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK; Medical
Research Council Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, Department of Pharmacology,
University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3QT, UK. (3)Department of
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, The Clifford Allbutt Building,
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK. (4)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK; Department of
Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford 
OX1 3QX, UK. Electronic address: richard.wade-martins@dpag.ox.ac.uk.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an insidious and incurable neurodegenerative disease,
and represents a significant cost to individuals, carers, and ageing societies.
It is defined at post-mortem by the loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia
nigra together with the presence of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. We examine
here the role of α-synuclein and other cellular transport proteins implicated in 
PD and how their aberrant activity may be compounded by the unique anatomy of the
dopaminergic neuron. This review uses multiple lines of evidence from genetic
studies, human tissue, induced pluripotent stem cells, and refined animal models 
to argue that prodromal PD can be defined as a disease of impaired intracellular 
trafficking. Dysfunction of the dopaminergic synapse heralds trafficking
impairment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639775  [PubMed - in process]


697. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):552-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26152. Epub 2015 Jan 14.

Statins, plasma cholesterol, and risk of Parkinson's disease: A prospective
study.

Huang X(1), Alonso A, Guo X, Umbach DM, Lichtenstein ML, Ballantyne CM, Mailman
RB, Mosley TH, Chen H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey,
Pennsylvania, USA.

Previous findings on the association of statins, plasma lipids, and Parkinson's
disease (PD) are confounded by the fact that statins also affect lipid profiles. 
We prospectively examined plasma lipids and statin use in relation to PD in the
Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. Statin use and plasma lipids
were assessed at baseline (visit 1, 1987-89) and at three triennial visits
thereafter (visits 2-4) until 1998. Potential PD cases were identified from
multiple sources and validated where possible. The primary analysis was limited
to incident PD cases diagnosed between 1998 and 2008. Odds ratios and 95%
confidence intervals were derived from multivariate logistic regression models.
Statin use was rare at baseline (0.57%) but increased to 11.2% at visit 4. During
this time frame, total-cholesterol levels decreased, particularly among statin
users. Fifty-six PD cases were identified after 1998. Statin use before 1998 was 
associated with significantly higher PD risk after 1998 (odds ratio = 2.39, 95%
confidence interval 1.11-5.13) after adjusting for total cholesterol and other
confounders. Conversely, higher total cholesterol was associated with lower risk 
for PD after adjustment for statin usage and confounders. Compared with the
lowest tertile of average total cholesterol, the odds ratios for PD were 0.56
(0.30-1.04) for the second and 0.43 (0.22-0.87) for the third tertile (Ptrend
 = 0.02). Statin use may be associated with a higher PD risk, whereas higher
total cholesterol may be associated with lower risk. These data are inconsistent 
with the hypothesis that statins are protective against PD. © 2015 International 
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4390443 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25639598  [PubMed - in process]


698. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):724-8. doi: 10.1002/mds.26140. Epub 2015 Jan 16.

Entacapone and prostate cancer risk in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Korhonen P(1), Kuoppamäki M, Prami T, Hoti F, Christopher S, Ellmén J, Aho V,
Vahteristo M, Pukkala E, Haukka J.

Author information: 
(1)EPID Research Oy, Espoo, Finland.

BACKGROUND: The association between Parkinson's disease (PD) and prostate cancer,
both common in elderly men, is disputable. In the STRIDE-PD study, prostate
cancer developed in 9 patients (3.7%) receiving levodopa/carbidopa with
entacapone, a catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor, versus 2 cases (0.9%)
without entacapone. The current pharmacoepidemiological study aimed to determine 
whether entacapone increases prostate cancer incidence or mortality in PD
patients and whether cumulative exposure affects these rates.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study using population-wide health
care registers with patient-level linkage. Prostate cancer incidence and
mortality were modeled by Cox's proportional hazards models.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Use of entacapone with l-dopa/dopa decarboxylase
inhibitor caused no increased risk of prostate cancer incidence (hazard ratio
[HR]: 1.05; 95% confidence interval: 0.76-1.44) or mortality (0.93; 0.43-1.98).
The HR for cumulative entacapone use of >360 days versus never-use was 0.82
(0.56-1.18) for prostate cancer incidence and 1.27 (0.60-2.72) for prostate
cancer mortality. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society © 
2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25639262  [PubMed - in process]


699. Clin Auton Res. 2015 Feb;25(1):61-7. doi: 10.1007/s10286-015-0268-z. Epub 2015
Feb 1.

Plasma biomarkers of decreased vesicular storage distinguish Parkinson disease
with orthostatic hypotension from the parkinsonian form of multiple system
atrophy.

Goldstein DS(1), Kopin IJ, Sharabi Y, Holmes C.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurocardiology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, National Institutes of Health (NINDS, NIH), 10 Center Drive MSC-1620,
Building 10 Room 5N220, Bethesda, MD, 20892-1620, USA, goldsteind@ninds.nih.gov.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson disease with orthostatic hypotension (PD + OH) and the
parkinsonian form of multiple system atrophy (MSA-P) can be difficult to
distinguish clinically. Recent studies indicate that PD entails a vesicular
storage defect in catecholaminergic neurons. Although cardiac sympathetic
neuroimaging by (18)F-dopamine positron emission tomography can identify
decreased vesicular storage, this testing is not generally available. We assessed
whether plasma biomarkers of a vesicular storage defect can separate PD + OH from
MSA-P.
METHODS: We conceptualized that after F-dopamine injection, augmented production 
of F-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (F-DOPAC) indicates decreased vesicular storage, 
and we therefore predicted that arterial plasma F-DOPAC would be elevated in
PD + OH but not in MSA-P. We measured arterial plasma F-DOPAC after
(18)F-dopamine administration (infused i.v. over 3 min) in patients with PD + OH 
(N = 12) or MSA-P (N = 21) and in healthy control subjects (N = 26). Peak
F-DOPAC:dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) was also calculated to adjust for effects of
denervation on F-DOPAC production.
RESULTS: Plasma F-DOPAC accumulated rapidly after initiation of (18)F-dopamine
infusion. Peak F-DOPAC (5-10 min) in PD + OH averaged three times that in MSA-P
(P < 0.0001). Among MSA-P patients, none had peak F-DOPAC > 300 nCi-kg/cc-mCi, in
contrast with 7 of 12 PD + OH patients (χ (2) = 16.6, P < 0.0001). DHPG was lower
in PD + OH (3.83 ± 0.36 nmol/L) than in MSA-P (5.20 ± 0.29 nmol/L, P = 0.007).
All MSA-P patients had peak F-DOPAC:DHPG < 60, in contrast with 9 of 12 PD + OH
patients (χ (2) = 17.5, P < 0.0001). Adjustment of peak F-DOPAC for DHPG
increased test sensitivity from 58 to 81 % at similar high specificity.
INTERPRETATION: After F-dopamine injection, plasma F-DOPAC and F-DOPAC:DHPG
distinguish PD + OH from MSA-P.

PMID: 25638582  [PubMed - in process]


700. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):417-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.022. Epub 2015 Jan 7.

Piano playing festination as initial symptom of Parkinson's disease.

Rossi M(1), Cerquetti D(1), Merello M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Section, Raul Carrea Institute for Neurological Research
(FLENI), Montañeses 2325, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires 1428, Argentina.
(2)Movement Disorders Section, Raul Carrea Institute for Neurological Research
(FLENI), Montañeses 2325, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires 1428, Argentina.
Electronic address: mmerello@fleni.org.ar.

PMID: 25638494  [PubMed - in process]


701. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Mar 17;590:134-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2015.01.064. Epub
2015 Jan 28.

The serotonin aldehyde, 5-HIAL, oligomerizes alpha-synuclein.

Jinsmaa Y(1), Cooney A(1), Sullivan P(1), Sharabi Y(2), Goldstein DS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurocardiology Section, Clinical Neurosciences Program, Division of 
Intramural Research, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892 USA. (2)Department of Internal 
Medicine, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-HaShomer, Israel. (3)Clinical
Neurocardiology Section, Clinical Neurosciences Program, Division of Intramural
Research, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892 USA. Electronic address:
goldsteind@ninds.nih.gov.

In Parkinson's disease (PD) alpha-synuclein oligomers are thought to be
pathogenic, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL), an obligate aldehyde
intermediate in neuronal dopamine metabolism, potently oligomerizes
alpha-synuclein. PD involves alpha-synuclein deposition in brainstem raphe
nuclei; however, whether 5-hydroxyindoleacetaldehyde (5-HIAL), the aldehyde of
serotonin, oligomerizes alpha-synuclein has been unknown. In this study we tested
whether 5-HIAL oligomerizes alpha-synuclein in vitro and in PC12 cells
conditionally over-expressing alpha-synuclein. Alpha-synuclein oligomers were
quantified by western blotting after incubation of alpha-synuclein with serotonin
and monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A) to generate 5-HIAL or dopamine to generate DOPAL.
Oligomerization of alpha-synuclein in PC12 cells over-expressing the protein was 
compared between vehicle-treated cells and cells incubated with levodopa to
generate DOPAL or 5-hydroxytryptophan to generate 5-HIAL. Monoamine aldehyde
mediation of the oligomerization was assessed using the MAO inhibitor, pargyline.
Dopamine and serotonin incubated with MAO-A both strongly oligomerized
alpha-synuclein (more than 10 times control); pargyline blocked the
oligomerization. In synuclein overexpressing PC12 cells, levodopa and
5-hydroxytryptophan elicited pargyline-sensitive alpha-synuclein oligomerization.
5-HIAL oligomerizes alpha-synuclein both in vitro and in synuclein-overexpressing
PC12 cells, in a manner similar to DOPAL. The findings may help explain loss of
serotonergic neurons in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637699  [PubMed - in process]


702. Neurosci Res. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S0168-0102(15)00008-5. doi:
10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Neural mechanism underlying hyperalgesic response to orofacial pain in
Parkinson's disease model rats.

Maegawa H(1), Morimoto Y(2), Kudo C(3), Hanamoto H(3), Boku A(3), Sugimura M(3), 
Kato T(4), Yoshida A(4), Niwa H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dental Anesthesiology, Osaka University Graduate School of
Dentistry, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. Electronic address:
maegawa@dent.osaka-u.ac.jp. (2)Special Patient Oral Care Unit, Kyushu University 
Hospital, Fukuoka, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan. (3)Department of Dental
Anesthesiology, Osaka University Graduate School of Dentistry, Suita, Osaka
565-0871, Japan. (4)Department of Oral Anatomy and Neurobiology, Osaka University
Graduate School of Dentistry, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

To investigate the neural mechanism of pain originating from the orofacial region
in PD patients, we used PD model rats produced by unilateral injection of
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle. We investigated
effects of nigrostriatal lesions on the behavioral response (face rubbing) to
formalin injection into the upper lip. We also examined expression of c-Fos and
phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) in the trigeminal
spinal subnucleus caudalis (Vc) and expression of c-Fos in the periaqueductal
gray matter (PAG). Face rubbings following formalin injection showed a biphasic
profile, with the first phase for the first 5min and the second phase from 10 to 
90min. Rats with 6-OHDA lesions showed increased face rubbings in the second
phase when formalin was injected ipsilaterally to the lesion, and c-Fos
expression in the Vc increased. When formalin was injected contralaterally, face 
rubbings were reduced in the first phase, however, expression levels of c-Fos and
pERK in the Vc were unchanged. No significant difference was found in c-Fos
expression in the PAG between 6-OHDA- and saline-injected rats. These results
suggest that unilateral dopamine depletion in the nigrostriatal pathway may be
involved in hypersensitivity to noxious stimulation delivered to the orofacial
region.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25637312  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


703. J Neurol. 2015 Apr;262(4):899-908. doi: 10.1007/s00415-015-7650-6. Epub 2015 Jan 
31.

Changes in oxygenated hemoglobin link freezing of gait to frontal activation in
patients with Parkinson disease: an fNIRS study of transient motor-cognitive
failures.

Maidan I(1), Bernad-Elazari H, Gazit E, Giladi N, Hausdorff JM, Mirelman A.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the study of Movement, Cognition and Mobility, Department of
Neurology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel.

Recent studies have suggested that deficits in executive function contribute to
freezing of gait (FOG), an episodic disturbance common among patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD). To date, most findings provide only indirect evidence
of this relationship. Here, we evaluated a more direct link between FOG and
frontal lobe dysfunction. Functional, near infrared spectroscopy measured frontal
activation, i.e., oxygenated hemoglobin (HbO2) levels in Brodmann area 10 before 
and during FOG. Eleven patients with PD and eleven healthy older adults were
studied. Changes in frontal lobe activation before and during FOG that occurred
during turns were determined. Altogether, 49 FOG episodes were observed-28
occurred during turns that were anticipated (i.e., the patient knew in advance
that the turn was coming), 21 during unanticipated turns that were performed
"abruptly", according to the examiner's request. During anticipated turns, HbO2
increased by 0.22 ± 0.08 µM (p = 0.004) before FOG and by an additional
0.19 ± 0.13 µM (p = 0.072) during FOG. In contrast, during unanticipated turns,
HbO2 did not increase before or during FOG. HbO2 decreased by 0.32 ± 0.08 µM
(p = 0.004) during turns without FOG; in healthy controls HbO2 did not change
during turns. These findings support the existence of an association between FOG 
episodes and changes in frontal lobe HbO2. Increased activation in Brodmann area 
10 before FOG, specifically during anticipated turns, highlights the connections 
between motor planning, information processing, and FOG. These results support
the idea that alterations in executive control play a role in this debilitating
motor disturbance.

PMID: 25636682  [PubMed - in process]


704. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Feb;32(1):1-5. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2015.01.001.

[Polymorphisms of catechol-O-methyltransferase and monoamine oxidase B genes
among Chinese patients with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Hao H(1), Shao M, An J, Chen C, Feng X, Xie S, Gu Z, Chen B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital Affiliated to Qingdao
Medical College, Yantai, Shandong 264000, P. R. China. Email: yimshao@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To study polymorphisms of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and
monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) genes among Chinese patients with Parkinson's
disease.
METHODS: Genotypes of the COMT and MAO-B genes of 1408 patients with Parkinson's 
disease was sequenced using Sanger method. And these patients were recruited by
Chinese Parkinson Study Group from 29 research centers throughout the country.
RESULTS: The genotypic frequencies of COMT rs4680 AA, AG, GG were 8.9%, 42.0% and
49.1%. Those of rs4818 CC, CG, GG were 42.5%, 45.6% and 11.9%, respectively. The 
genotype frequencies of MAO-B rs1799836 A/AA, AG, G/GG were 74.4%, 14.1% and
11.5%, respectively. The haplotype formed by COMT rs4680 (GG) and MAO-B rs1799836
(A/AA) genotype has a frequency of 36.86%.
CONCLUSION: Polymorphisms of COMT and MAO-B genes has a unique characteristics
among Chinese patients with Parkinson's disease. They may be related with
differences in drug response in such patients.

PMID: 25636089  [PubMed - in process]


705. Cell. 2015 Jan 29;160(3):570-570.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2015.01.019.

SnapShot: Genetics of Parkinson's disease.

Brás J(1), Guerreiro R(1), Hardy J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology, University
College London, Queen Square, London WC1N 1PJ, UK.

PMID: 25635463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Clin Cell Immunol. 2014 Sep 30;5:259.

Tyrosine Kinase Inhibition Regulates Early Systemic Immune Changes and Modulates 
the Neuroimmune Response in α-Synucleinopathy.

Hebron ML(1), Lonskaya I(1), Olopade P(1), Selby ST(2), Pagan F(3), Moussa CE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Laboratory for Dementia and Parkinsonism,
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington D.C., 20007, USA. (2)Department 
of Oncology, Lombardi Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center,
Washington D.C., 20007, USA. (3)Neurorestoration Group, Movement Disorders
Program, National Parkinson Foundation Center of Excellence, Georgetown
University Hospital, Washington D.C., 20007, USA ; Deparment of Neurology,
Georgetown University Hospital, Washington D.C., 20007, USA. (4)Department of
Neuroscience, Laboratory for Dementia and Parkinsonism, Georgetown University
Medical Center, Washington D.C., 20007, USA ; Neurorestoration Group, Movement
Disorders Program, National Parkinson Foundation Center of Excellence, Georgetown
University Hospital, Washington D.C., 20007, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Neuro-inflammation is common in α-Synucleinopathies and Tauopathies; 
and evidence suggests a link between the tyrosine kinase Abl and
neurodegeneration. Abl upregulates α-Synuclein and promotes Tau
hyper-phosphorylation (p-Tau), while Abl inhibitors facilitate autophagic
clearance.
METHODS: A model of α-Synucleinopathy harboring human mutant A53T α-Synuclein and
exhibits concomitant increase in murine p-Tau was used to determine the
immunological response to Abl inhibition.
RESULTS: Age-dependent alterations of brain immunity, including loss of IL-10 and
decreased levels of IL-2 and IL-3 were observed in old A53T mice. Brain CCL2 and 
CCL5 were decreased, but CX3CL1 remained constantly elevated. Young A53T mice
exhibited differential systemic and central immune profiles in parallel with
increased blood markers of adaptive immunity, suggesting an early systemic immune
response. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), including nilotinib and bosutinib
reduced brain and peripheral α-Synuclein and p-Tau and modulated blood
immunological responses. TKIs did not affect brain IL-10, but they changed the
levels of all measured blood immune markers, except CX3CL1. TKIs altered
microglia morphology and reduced the number of astrocyte and dendritic cells,
suggesting beneficial regulation of microglia.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that tyrosine kinase inhibition affects
neuro-inflammation via early changes of the peripheral immune profile, leading to
modulation of the neuro-immune response to α-Synuclein and p-Tau.

PMCID: PMC4308054
PMID: 25635231  [PubMed]


707. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 20;290(12):7804-22. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.598607. Epub 2015
Jan 29.

Familial Parkinson Disease-associated Mutations Alter the Site-specific
Microenvironment and Dynamics of α-Synuclein.

Sahay S(1), Ghosh D(1), Dwivedi S(1), Anoop A(1), Mohite GM(1), Kombrabail M(2), 
Krishnamoorthy G(3), Maji SK(4).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of
Technology Bombay, Mumbai 400 076, India and. (2)Department of Chemical Sciences,
Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai 400 005, India. (3)Department of
Chemical Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai 400 005, India 
gk@tifr.res.in. (4)From the Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian 
Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai 400 076, India and samirmaji@iitb.ac.in.

Human α-synuclein (α-Syn) is a natively unstructured protein whose aggregation
into amyloid fibrils is associated with Parkinson disease (PD) pathogenesis.
Mutations of α-Syn, E46K, A53T, and A30P, have been linked to the familial form
of PD. In vitro aggregation studies suggest that increased propensity to form
non-fibrillar oligomers is the shared property of these familial PD-associated
mutants. However, the structural basis of the altered aggregation propensities of
these PD-associated mutants is not yet clear. To understand this, we studied the 
site-specific structural dynamics of wild type (WT) α-Syn and its three PD
mutants (A53T, E46K, and A30P). Tryptophan (Trp) was substituted at the N
terminus, central hydrophobic region, and C terminus of all α-Syns. Using various
biophysical techniques including time-resolved fluorescence studies, we show that
irrespective of similar secondary structure and early oligomerization
propensities, familial PD-associated mutations alter the site-specific
microenvironment, solvent exposure, and conformational flexibility of the
protein. Our results further show that the common structural feature of the three
PD-associated mutants is more compact and rigid sites at their N and C termini
compared with WT α-Syn that may facilitate the formation of a partially folded
intermediate that eventually leads to their increased oligomerization
propensities.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4367280 [Available on 2016-03-20]
PMID: 25635052  [PubMed - in process]


708. Circ Res. 2015 Jan 30;116(3):386-8. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.114.305681.

Coins of the realm in atrioventricular junction development.

Kwon C(1), Tomaselli GF(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD. (2)From the Division of Cardiology, Department of
Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. gtomasel@jhmi.edu.

Comment on
    Circ Res. 2015 Jan 30;116(3):398-406.

PMCID: PMC4357358 [Available on 2016-01-30]
PMID: 25634965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):394-7. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.004. Epub 2015 Jan 14.

Novel GCH1 variant in Dopa-responsive dystonia and Parkinson's disease.

Lewthwaite AJ(1), Lambert TD(2), Rolfe EB(3), Olgiati S(4), Quadri M(4), Simons
EJ(4), Morrison KE(5), Bonifati V(4), Nicholl DJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, UK; Department 
of Neurology, The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust, Dudley, UK; School of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medicine and Dentistry, University
of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (2)Department of Neurology, Queen Elizabeth
Hospital, Birmingham, UK. (3)Department of Radiology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital,
Birmingham, UK. (4)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands. (5)Department of Neurology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham,
UK; School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medicine and
Dentistry, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (6)Department of Neurology, 
Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, UK; Department of Radiology, Queen
Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, UK; Department of Neurology, Sandwell & West
Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust, Birmingham, UK. Electronic address:
David.Nicholl@nhs.net.

BACKGROUND: GTP cyclohydrolase I (GCH1) mutations are the commonest cause of
Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD). Clinical phenotypes can be broad, even within a
single family.
METHODS: We present clinical, genetic and functional imaging data on a British
kindred in which affected subjects display phenotypes ranging from DRD to
Parkinson's disease (PD). Twelve family members were studied. Clinical
examination, dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging, and molecular genetic analysis
of GCH1 and the commonest known familial PD-related genes were performed.
RESULTS: We have identified a novel missense variant, c.5A > G, p.(Glu2Gly),
within the GCH1 gene in affected family members displaying a range of phenotypes.
Two affected subjects carrying this variant had abnormal DAT imaging. These two
with abnormal DAT imaging had a PD phenotype, while the remaining three subjects 
with the novel GCH1 variant had normal DAT imaging and a DRD phenotype.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose that this GCH1 variant is pathogenic in this family and
these findings suggest that similar mechanisms involving abnormal GTP
cyclohydolase I may underlie both PD and DRD. GCH1 genetic testing should be
considered in patients with PD and a family history of DRD.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4379065
PMID: 25634433  [PubMed - in process]


710. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):355-60. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.007. Epub 2015 Jan 17.

Inducible nitric oxide synthase gene methylation and parkinsonism in
manganese-exposed welders.

Searles Nielsen S(1), Checkoway H(2), Criswell SR(3), Farin FM(4), Stapleton
PL(4), Sheppard L(5), Racette BA(6).

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Department of Neurology, Seattle, WA, USA;
University of Washington, Department of Environmental and Occupational Health
Sciences, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: ssn@uw.edu. (2)University of
California San Diego, Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, La Jolla, CA,
USA. (3)Washington University, Department of Neurology, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(4)University of Washington, Department of Environmental and Occupational Health 
Sciences, Seattle, WA, USA. (5)University of Washington, Department of
Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, Seattle, WA, USA; University of
Washington, Department of Biostatistics, Seattle, WA, USA. (6)Washington
University, Department of Neurology, St. Louis, MO, USA; University of the
Witwatersrand, School of Public Health, Parktown, South Africa.

INTRODUCTION: Neurologist-assessed parkinsonism signs are prevalent among workers
exposed to manganese (Mn)-containing welding fume. Neuroinflammation may possibly
play a role. Inducible nitric oxide synthase, coded by NOS2, is involved in
inflammation, and particulate exposure increases the gene's expression through
methylation of CpG sites in the 5' region.
METHODS: We assessed DNA methylation at three CpG sites in the NOS2 exon 1 from
blood from 201 welders. All were non-Hispanic Caucasian men 25-65 years old who
were examined by a neurologist specializing in movement disorders. We categorized
the workers according to their Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale motor
subsection 3 (UPDRS3) scores as parkinsonism cases (UPDRS3 ≥ 15; n = 49),
controls (UPDRS3 < 6; n = 103), or intermediate (UPDRS3 ≥ 6 to < 15; n = 49).
RESULTS: While accounting for age, examiner and experimental plate, parkinsonism 
cases had lower mean NOS2 methylation than controls (p-value for trend = 0.04),
specifically at CpG site 8329 located in an exonic splicing enhancer of NOS2
(p-value for trend = 0.07). These associations were not observed for the
intermediate UPDRS3 group (both p-value for trend ≥ 0.59).
CONCLUSIONS: Inflammation mediated by inducible nitric oxide synthase may
possibly contribute to the association between welding fume and parkinsonism, but
requires verification in a longitudinal study.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25634431  [PubMed - in process]


711. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Jan;94(4):e411. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000411.

A systematic review and meta-analysis of strength training in individuals with
multiple sclerosis or Parkinson disease.

Cruickshank TM(1), Reyes AR, Ziman MR.

Author information: 
(1)From the School of Medical Sciences (TMC, ARR, MRZ), Edith Cowan University;
and School of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (MRZ), University of Western
Australia, Perth, Australia.

Strength training has, in recent years, been shown to be beneficial for people
with Parkinson disease and multiple sclerosis. Consensus regarding its utility
for these disorders nevertheless remains contentious among healthcare
professionals. Greater clarity is required, especially in regards to the type and
magnitude of effects as well as the response differences to strength training
between individuals with Parkinson disease or multiple sclerosis. This study
examines the effects, magnitude of those effects, and response differences to
strength training between patients with Parkinson disease or multiple sclerosis. 
A comprehensive search of electronic databases including Physiotherapy Evidence
Database scale, PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials,
and CINAHL was conducted from inception to July 2014. English articles
investigating the effect of strength training for individuals with
neurodegenerative disorders were selected. Strength training trials that met the 
inclusion criteria were found for individuals with Parkinson disease or multiple 
sclerosis. Individuals with Parkinson disease or multiple sclerosis were included
in the study. Strength training interventions included traditional (free
weights/machine exercises) and nontraditional programs (eccentric cycling).
Included articles were critically appraised using the Physiotherapy Evidence
Database scale. Of the 507 articles retrieved, only 20 articles met the inclusion
criteria. Of these, 14 were randomized and 6 were nonrandomized controlled
articles in Parkinson disease or multiple sclerosis. Six randomized and 2
nonrandomized controlled articles originated from 3 trials and were subsequently 
pooled for systematic analysis. Strength training was found to significantly
improve muscle strength in people with Parkinson disease (15%-83.2%) and multiple
sclerosis (4.5%-36%). Significant improvements in mobility (11.4%) and disease
progression were also reported in people with Parkinson disease after strength
training. Furthermore, significant improvements in fatigue (8.2%), functional
capacity (21.5%), quality of life (8.3%), power (17.6%), and electromyography
activity (24.4%) were found in individuals with multiple sclerosis after strength
training. The limitations of the study were the heterogeneity of interventions
and study outcomes in Parkinson disease and multiple sclerosis trials. Strength
training is useful for increasing muscle strength in Parkinson disease and to a
lesser extent multiple sclerosis.

PMID: 25634170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 2014 Dec;39(6):456-60.

[Effect of electroacupuncture intervention on ERK 1/2 signaling and TNF-α and
IL-1β protein levels in the substantia Nigra in rats with Parkinson's Disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang SJ, Ma J, Gong YX, Wang YC, Zeng XL, Liang Y, Sun GJ.

OBJECTIVE: To observe the effect of electroacupuncture(EA) on phosphalized
extracellular regulated protein kinases(p-ERK) 1/2 signaling pathway and tumor
necrosis factor (TNF)-α and IL-1β protein levels in the substantia nigra (SN) in 
rats with Parkinson's disease (PD), so as to explore its mechanism underlying
improvement of PD.
METHODS: 32 male SD rats were randomly and averagely divided into normal control 
group, sham-operation group, model group and EA group. PD model was established
by intra-dermal-injection of rotenone(1 mg/kg, dissolved in DMSO and saline,
concentration: 0. 25 mg/mL) at the nape, once daily for 14 days. EA (2 Hz, 2 mA) 
was applied to "Fengfu"(GV 16)and "Taichong"(LR 3) for 20 min, once daily for 14 
days. For sham-operation group, subcutaneous injection of the same dose of DMSO
and saline was given in the same way. The expression levels of tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH), p-ERK 1/2, inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1P proteins of
the SN tissue were detected using Western blot. The rat's horizontal and vertical
movement ability was assessed using open-field tests.
RESULTS: The horizontal and vertical movement scores were significantly lower in 
the model group than in the normal control group, and markedly higher in the EA
group than in the model group (P<0. 05). Compared with the normal control group, 
the expression level of TH protein in the SN was significantly reduced in the
model group( P<0. 05 ),while the expression levels of p-ERK 1/2, TNF-α and IL-1β 
proteins were significantly increased in the model group(P<0. 05). After EA
intervention, the expression level of TH protein was significantly
increased(P<0.05),and those of p-ERK 1/2, TNF-α and IL-1β proteins were
significantly down-regulated(P<0. 05) in the EA group compared to the model
group.
CONCLUSION: EA therapy may improve PD rats' movement ability, which may be
associated with its effects in down-regulating the expression levels of p-ERK
1/2, TNF-α and IL-1β proteins and up-regulating the expression of TH protein in
the SN.

PMID: 25632569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Jan 28. pii: jnnp-2014-309888. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-309888. [Epub ahead of print]

Presymptomatic and longitudinal neuroimaging in neurodegeneration-from snapshots 
to motion picture: a systematic review.

Schuster C(1), Elamin M(1), Hardiman O(1), Bede P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Quantitative Neuroimaging Group, Academic Unit of Neurology, Biomedical
Sciences Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Recent quantitative neuroimaging studies have been successful in
capturing phenotype and genotype-specific changes in dementia syndromes,
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative
conditions. However, the majority of imaging studies are cross-sectional, despite
the obvious superiority of longitudinal study designs in characterising disease
trajectories, response to therapy, progression rates and evaluating the
presymptomatic phase of neurodegenerative conditions.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this work is to perform a systematic review of
longitudinal imaging initiatives in neurodegeneration focusing on methodology,
optimal statistical models, follow-up intervals, attrition rates, primary study
outcomes and presymptomatic studies.
METHODS: Longitudinal imaging studies were identified from 'PubMed' and reviewed 
from 1990 to 2014. The search terms 'longitudinal', 'MRI', 'presymptomatic' and
'imaging' were utilised in combination with one of the following degenerative
conditions; Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron
disease, frontotemporal dementia, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis,
Parkinson's disease, ataxia, HIV, alcohol abuse/dependence.
RESULTS: A total of 423 longitudinal imaging papers and 103 genotype-based
presymptomatic studies were identified and systematically reviewed. Imaging
techniques, follow-up intervals and attrition rates showed significant variation 
depending on the primary diagnosis. Commonly used statistical models included
analysis of annualised percentage change, mixed and random effect models, and
non-linear cumulative models with acceleration-deceleration components.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Although longitudinal imaging studies have the
potential to provide crucial insights into the presymptomatic phase and natural
trajectory of neurodegenerative processes a standardised design is required to
enable meaningful data interpretation.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25632156  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


714. Neurology. 2015 Feb 24;84(8):794-802. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001282. Epub
2015 Jan 28.

Placebo effect of medication cost in Parkinson disease: a randomized double-blind
study.

Espay AJ(1), Norris MM(2), Eliassen JC(2), Dwivedi A(2), Smith MS(2), Banks C(2),
Allendorfer JB(2), Lang AE(2), Fleck DE(2), Linke MJ(2), Szaflarski JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the UC Neuroscience Institute, Department of Neurology (A.J.E., C.B.,
J.P.S.), and Department of Internal Medicine (M.J.L.), University of Cincinnati; 
Gardner Family Center for Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders (A.J.E.),
Cincinnati; University of Cincinnati Center for Imaging Research (M.M.N., J.C.E.,
M.S.S., D.E.F.), OH; Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology (A.D.), Texas
Tech University Health Sciences Center, El Paso; The Morton and Gloria Shulman
Movement Disorders Clinic and the Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease 
(A.E.L.), University Health Network and the University of Toronto, Canada;
University of Alabama at Birmingham (J.B.A., J.P.S.); and Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center (M.J.L.), Research Service, Cincinnati, OH.
alberto.espay@uc.edu. (2)From the UC Neuroscience Institute, Department of
Neurology (A.J.E., C.B., J.P.S.), and Department of Internal Medicine (M.J.L.),
University of Cincinnati; Gardner Family Center for Parkinson's Disease and
Movement Disorders (A.J.E.), Cincinnati; University of Cincinnati Center for
Imaging Research (M.M.N., J.C.E., M.S.S., D.E.F.), OH; Division of Biostatistics 
and Epidemiology (A.D.), Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, El Paso;
The Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Clinic and the Edmond J. Safra
Program in Parkinson's Disease (A.E.L.), University Health Network and the
University of Toronto, Canada; University of Alabama at Birmingham (J.B.A.,
J.P.S.); and Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center (M.J.L.), Research
Service, Cincinnati, OH.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2015 Feb 24;84(8):766-7.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of cost, a traditionally "inactive" trait of
intervention, as contributor to the response to therapeutic interventions.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective double-blind study in 12 patients with
moderate to severe Parkinson disease and motor fluctuations (mean age 62.4 ± 7.9 
years; mean disease duration 11 ± 6 years) who were randomized to a "cheap" or
"expensive" subcutaneous "novel injectable dopamine agonist" placebo (normal
saline). Patients were crossed over to the alternate arm approximately 4 hours
later. Blinded motor assessments in the "practically defined off" state, before
and after each intervention, included the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating
Scale motor subscale, the Purdue Pegboard Test, and a tapping task. Measurements 
of brain activity were performed using a feedback-based visual-motor associative 
learning functional MRI task. Order effect was examined using stratified
analysis.
RESULTS: Although both placebos improved motor function, benefit was greater when
patients were randomized first to expensive placebo, with a magnitude halfway
between that of cheap placebo and levodopa. Brain activation was greater upon
first-given cheap but not upon first-given expensive placebo or by levodopa.
Regardless of order of administration, only cheap placebo increased activation in
the left lateral sensorimotor cortex and other regions.
CONCLUSION: Expensive placebo significantly improved motor function and decreased
brain activation in a direction and magnitude comparable to, albeit less than,
levodopa. Perceptions of cost are capable of altering the placebo response in
clinical studies.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class III evidence that
perception of cost is capable of influencing motor function and brain activation 
in Parkinson disease.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4345649 [Available on 2015-08-24]
PMID: 25632091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Neurology. 2015 Feb 24;84(8):766-7. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001294. Epub 2015 
Jan 28.

The pharmacodynamics of placebo: expectation effects of price as a proxy for
efficacy.

LeWitt PA(1), Kim S(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (P.A.L.), Parkinson's Disease and Movement
Disorders Center, Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital; Department of Neurology
(P.A.L.), Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI; and Department 
of Bioethics (S.K.), National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
plewitt1@hfhs.org. (2)From the Department of Neurology (P.A.L.), Parkinson's
Disease and Movement Disorders Center, Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital;
Department of Neurology (P.A.L.), Wayne State University School of Medicine,
Detroit, MI; and Department of Bioethics (S.K.), National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2015 Feb 24;84(8):794-802.

PMID: 25632090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):721-4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26145. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

The impact of rare variants in FUS in essential tremor.

Hopfner F(1), Stevanin G, Müller SH, Mundwiller E, Bungeroth M, Durr A,
Pendziwiat M, Anheim M, Schneider SA, Tittmann L, Klebe S, Lorenz D, Deuschl G,
Brice A, Kuhlenbäumer G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Schleswig Holstein, Kiel,
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: We analyzed the coding region of the Fused in Sarcoma (FUS) gene in
familial essential tremor (ET) and reviewed previous studies assessing FUS
variants in ET.
BACKGROUND: ET is often a familial disorder with an autosomal dominant
inheritance pattern. A potentially causative variant in FUS has been identified
in one ET family. Subsequent studies described further putatively causal
variants.
METHODS: We performed DNA sequencing of FUS in 85 unrelated, familial German and 
French definite ET patients.
RESULTS: We did not find novel variants affecting the protein sequence. Seven
previously published studies and data from the exome variant server (EVS) showed 
that rare exonic variants in FUS are not more frequent in ET than in the general 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide no evidence for a role of rare genetic variants
in the pathogenesis of ET, apart from the initially published FUS mutation
segregating in a large ET family. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25631824  [PubMed - in process]


717. Neurotox Res. 2015 Apr;27(3):328-54. doi: 10.1007/s12640-015-9519-y. Epub 2015
Jan 29.

Neurotoxin mechanisms and processes relevant to Parkinson's disease: an update.

Segura-Aguilar J(1), Kostrzewa RM.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, ICBM, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Chile, Independencia 1027, Casilla, 70000, Santiago 7, Chile,
jsegura@med.uchile.cl.

The molecular mechanism responsible for degenerative process in the nigrostriatal
dopaminergic system in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unknown. One major
advance in this field has been the discovery of several genes associated to
familial PD, including alpha synuclein, parkin, LRRK2, etc., thereby providing
important insight toward basic research approaches. There is an consensus in
neurodegenerative research that mitochon dria dysfunction, protein degradation
dysfunction, aggregation of alpha synuclein to neurotoxic oligomers, oxidative
and endoplasmic reticulum stress, and neuroinflammation are involved in
degeneration of the neuromelanin-containing dopaminergic neurons that are lost in
the disease. An update of the mechanisms relating to neurotoxins that are used to
produce preclinical models of Parkinson´s disease is presented.
6-Hydroxydopamine, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, and rotenone
have been the most wisely used neurotoxins to delve into mechanisms involved in
the loss of dopaminergic neurons containing neuromelanin. Neurotoxins generated
from dopamine oxidation during neuromelanin formation are likewise reviewed, as
this pathway replicates neurotoxin-induced cellular oxidative stress,
inactivation of key proteins related to mitochondria and protein degradation
dysfunction, and formation of neurotoxic aggregates of alpha synuclein. This
survey of neurotoxin modeling-highlighting newer technologies and implicating a
variety of processes and pathways related to mechanisms attending PD-is focused
on research studies from 2012 to 2014.

PMID: 25631236  [PubMed - in process]


718. Ann Neurol. 2015 May;77(5):889-94. doi: 10.1002/ana.24373. Epub 2015 Mar 13.

The MC1R melanoma risk variant p.R160W is associated with Parkinson disease.

Tell-Marti G(1), Puig-Butille JA, Potrony M, Badenas C, Milà M, Malvehy J, Martí 
MJ, Ezquerra M, Fernández-Santiago R, Puig S.

Author information: 
(1)Dermatology, Department, Melanoma Unit, Hospital Clínic and August Pi i Sunyer
Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBAPS); Center for Biomedical Network Research
on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Carlos III Health Institute (ISCIII).

Epidemiological studies have reported the co-occurrence of Parkinson disease (PD)
and melanoma. Common genetic variants in the MC1R (melanocortin 1 receptor) gene,
which determines skin and hair color, are associated with melanoma. Here we
investigated whether genetic variants in MC1R modulate the risk of PD by
sequencing the entire gene in 870 PD patients and 736 controls ascertained from
Spain. We found that the MC1R variant p.R160W (rs1805008) is marginally
associated with PD (odds ratio = 2.10, gender- and age-adjusted p = 0.009,
Bonferroni-corrected p = 0.063). Our results suggest that MC1R genetic variants
modulate the risk of PD disease in the Spanish population. Ann Neurol
2015;77:889-894.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25631192  [PubMed - in process]


719. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/ane.12378. [Epub ahead of print]

Is excessive daytime sleepiness a separate manifestation in Parkinson's disease?

Höglund A(1), Broman JE, Pålhagen S, Fredrikson S, Hagell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden;
Department of Neurology, Karolinska University Hospital Huddinge, Stockholm,
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) is common in Parkinson's disease
(PD), but its role and relation to other PD features is less well understood.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate potential predictors of EDS in PD and to explore how
EDS relates to other motor and non-motor PD features.
METHODS: 118 consecutive persons with PD (54% men; mean age, 64) were assessed
regarding EDS using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and a range of motor and
non-motor symptoms. Variables significantly associated with ESS scores in
bivariate analyses were used in multiple regression analyses with ESS scores as
the dependent variable. Principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted to
explore the interrelationships between ESS scores and other motor and non-motor
PD aspects.
RESULTS: Among 114 persons with complete ESS data, significant independent
associations were found between ESS scores and axial/postural/gait impairment,
depressive symptoms, and pain (R(2) , 0.199). ESS scores did not load
significantly together with any other PD features in the PCA.
CONCLUSIONS: Only a limited proportion of the variation in EDS could be accounted
for by other symptoms, and EDS did not cluster together with any other PD
features in PCAs. This suggests that EDS is a separate manifestation differing
from, for example, poor sleep quality and fatigue.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25630925  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


720. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):361-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.008. Epub 2015 Jan 17.

Quantitative and fiber-selective evaluation of pain and sensory dysfunction in
patients with Parkinson's disease.

Chen Y(1), Mao CJ(1), Li SJ(1), Wang F(2), Chen J(1), Zhang HJ(1), Li L(1), Guo
SS(1), Yang YP(3), Liu CF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Translational Research and 
Therapy for Neuro-Psycho-Diseases and The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Soochow University, Suzhou 215004, China. (2)Department of Neurology,
Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Translational Research and Therapy for
Neuro-Psycho-Diseases and The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University,
Soochow University, Suzhou 215004, China; Institute of Neuroscience, Soochow
University, Suzhou 215123, China. (3)Department of Neurology, Jiangsu Key
Laboratory of Translational Research and Therapy for Neuro-Psycho-Diseases and
The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Soochow University, Suzhou 
215004, China; Institute of Neuroscience, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123,
China; Beijing Key Laboratory for Parkinson's Disease, Beijing 100053, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Translational Research and 
Therapy for Neuro-Psycho-Diseases and The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Soochow University, Suzhou 215004, China; Institute of Neuroscience, 
Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China; Beijing Key Laboratory for Parkinson's 
Disease, Beijing 100053, China. Electronic address: liucf@suda.edu.cn.

INTRODUCTION: Pain and sensory disturbances affect many patients with Parkinson's
disease (PD). The present study aimed to evaluate the pain and sensory
sensitivity of each class of afferent fibers in PD patients and determine the
effects of dopaminergic therapy on pain and sensory sensitivity.
METHODS: Current perception threshold (CPT) and pain tolerance thresholds (PTT)
at three frequencies, 2000 Hz, 250 Hz, and 5 Hz, to stimulate Aβ fibers, Aδ
fibers, and small C-polymodal fibers, respectively, were measured in 72 PD
patients and 35 healthy controls.
RESULTS: CPT was higher at all three frequencies and PTT was lower at 2000 Hz and
250 Hz in PD patients with pain versus healthy controls (P < 0.05). CPT was
higher at 2000 Hz and 250 Hz and PTT was lower at 2000 Hz and 250 Hz in PD
patients without pain versus healthy controls (P < 0.05). PD patients with pain
exhibited higher CPT at 5 Hz and 250 Hz than PD patients without pain (P < 0.05).
Dopaminergic therapy did not affect CPT or PPT in PD patients (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Abnormal Aδ fiber- and Aβ fiber-dependent sensory inputs may exist
in PD. Abnormal sensory inputs via C fibers and Aδ fibers might be associated
with the presence of pain in PD. Because dopaminergic therapy failed to mitigate 
these sensory and pain dysfunctions, mechanisms not involving the dopaminergic
pathway are likely to be implicated.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25630889  [PubMed - in process]


721. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Apr;21(4):427. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.010. Epub 2014 Nov 20.

RE response to: "Entacapone, Parkinson's disease, "functional adrenergic
denervation", and Takotsubo syndrome".

Baldacci F(1), Vergallo A(1), Del Dotto P(2), Ulivi M(1), Palombo C(3), Casolo
G(4), Bonuccelli U(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Neurology Unit, University
of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (2)Neurology Unit, Hospital of Viareggio, Viareggio, Italy.
(3)Division of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, University of Pisa,
Pisa, Italy. (4)Cardiology Unit, Hospital of Viareggio, Viareggio, Italy.
(5)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Neurology Unit, University
of Pisa, Via Roma 67, Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: u.bonuccelli@med.unipi.it.

PMID: 25630888  [PubMed - in process]


722. Acta Neurol Scand. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/ane.12368. [Epub ahead of print]

Psychometric properties of the General Self-Efficacy Scale in Parkinson's
disease.

Nilsson MH(1), Hagell P, Iwarsson S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the psychometric properties of the
General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSE) in people with Parkinson's disease (PD). More
specifically, we investigated data completeness, scaling assumptions, targeting, 
reliability, and construct validity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study involves data available from two different
projects that included people diagnosed with PD for at least 1 year, yielding two
samples (1 and 2). The combined total sample (N = 346; 60% men) had a mean (SD)
age and PD duration of 71 (8.9) and 9 years (6.3), respectively. Both samples
received a self-administered survey by mail, which was administered twice in
sample 2. Additional data (e.g., clinical assessments) were available for Sample 
1.
RESULTS: Total GSE scores were computable for 336 participants (97%). Corrected
item-total correlations exceeded 0.4. Principal component analyses identified one
component (the eigenvalue of the first component extracted was 6.9), explaining
69% of the total variance. Floor and ceiling effects were < 6%. Internal
consistency (coefficient alpha) was 0.95. Analyses of test-retest reliability
yielded (ICC) values from 0.69 to 0.80. The highest value refers to those
(n = 47) with identical self-ratings of mobility (in the on condition) at both
tests; the standard error of measurement was 3.1 points. Construct validity was
further supported by correlations in accordance with a priori expectations.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides support for the validity and reliability of GSE 
scores in people with PD; the GSE can thus serve as a valuable outcome
measurement in clinical practice and research.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25630440  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


723. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2014;114(11):145-51.

[Treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease with intestinal levodopa/carbidopa
gel: review of efficacy and safety].

[Article in Russian]

Timofeeva AA.

Late stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by the development of
motor fluctuations and dyskinesia which inevitably emerge during the disease due 
to long-term use of levodopa and hinder treatment. The use of intestinal
levodopa/carbidopa gel stabilizes the drug blood concentration and reduces the
severity of motor parkinsonian symptoms. The literature of the last two decades
on the efficacy and safety of intrarenal introduction of intestinal
levodopa/carbidopa gel in PD patients is reviewed.A data analysis of intestinal
levodopa/carbidopa gel revealed the efficacy of this method in the late stages of
PD. The drug reduced motor symptoms, severity of motor fluctuations and
dyskinesia and improved quality of life. Some studies demonstrated the decrease
in PD stage, as evaluated by Hoehn and Yahr, during treatment with intestinal
levodopa/carbidopa gel. The good tolerability profile allows for possibility of
using this method for multiyear treatment. Side-effects were mostly related to
drug delivery. All of them may be overcome in future in the process of technical 
improvement.

PMID: 25629138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. J Clin Neurol. 2015 Jan;11(1):42-7. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2015.11.1.42. Epub 2015 Jan 
2.

Whole-brain diffusion-tensor changes in parkinsonian patients with impulse
control disorders.

Yoo HB(1), Lee JY(2), Lee JS(3), Kang H(4), Kim YK(5), Song IC(6), Lee DS(4),
Jeon BS(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Neurology, Seoul National
University-Seoul Metropolitan Government Boramae Medical Center, College of
Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Brain and
Cognitive Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Seoul National University,
Seoul, Korea. ; Department of Nuclear Medicine, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of Nuclear
Medicine, Seoul National University-Seoul Metropolitan Government Boramae Medical
Center, College of Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Korea. (7)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to determine the changes in
diffusion-tensor images associated with medication-related impulse control
disorder (ICD) in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients undergoing chronic
dopamine-replacement therapy.
METHODS: Nineteen PD patients, comprising 10 with ICD (PD-ICD) and 9 without ICD 
(PD-nonICD), and 18 age-matched healthy controls (HCs) with no cognitive or other
psychiatric disorders were analyzed. All subjects underwent 3-T magnetic
resonance diffusion-tensor imaging. For all PD patients, clinical data on PD
duration, antiparkinsonian medication dosages, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating
Scale and Mini-Mental State Examination were collected. Whole-brain voxel-based
measures of fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) were analyzed.
RESULTS: In comparison with HCs, the PD-nonICD subjects had low FA at the
bilateral orbitofrontal areas. While the PD-ICD subjects exhibited no such
difference, their FA was significantly elevated at the anterior corpus callosum. 
Analysis of FA between the two PD groups revealed that FA in the anterior corpus 
callosum, right internal capsule posterior limbs, right posterior cingulum, and
right thalamic radiations were significantly higher (corrected p<0.05) in the
PD-ICD than in the PD-nonICD patients. MD did not differ between the PD-ICD and
PD-nonICD groups in any brain regions.
CONCLUSIONS: The PD-ICD patients appear to have relatively preserved white-matter
integrity in the regions involved in reward-related behaviors compared to
PD-nonICD patients. Further investigation is required to determine whether the
difference in FA between PD-ICD and PD-nonICD patients reflects microstructural
differences in the pathological progression of PD or is secondary to ICD.

PMCID: PMC4302178
PMID: 25628736  [PubMed]


725. Front Hum Neurosci. 2015 Jan 13;8:1054. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.01054.
eCollection 2014.

Gestures make memories, but what kind? Patients with impaired procedural memory
display disruptions in gesture production and comprehension.

Klooster NB(1), Cook SW(2), Uc EY(3), Duff MC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA ; DeLTA
Center, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA. (2)DeLTA Center, University of
Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA ; Department of Psychology, University of Iowa Iowa City,
IA, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA ;
Neurology Service, Veterans Affairs Medical Center Iowa City, IA, USA.
(4)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA ; DeLTA
Center, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA ; Department of Neurology,
University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA ; Department of Communication Sciences and 
Disorders, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA.

Hand gesture, a ubiquitous feature of human interaction, facilitates
communication. Gesture also facilitates new learning, benefiting speakers and
listeners alike. Thus, gestures must impact cognition beyond simply supporting
the expression of already-formed ideas. However, the cognitive and neural
mechanisms supporting the effects of gesture on learning and memory are largely
unknown. We hypothesized that gesture's ability to drive new learning is
supported by procedural memory and that procedural memory deficits will disrupt
gesture production and comprehension. We tested this proposal in patients with
intact declarative memory, but impaired procedural memory as a consequence of
Parkinson's disease (PD), and healthy comparison participants with intact
declarative and procedural memory. In separate experiments, we manipulated the
gestures participants saw and produced in a Tower of Hanoi (TOH) paradigm. In the
first experiment, participants solved the task either on a physical board,
requiring high arching movements to manipulate the discs from peg to peg, or on a
computer, requiring only flat, sideways movements of the mouse. When explaining
the task, healthy participants with intact procedural memory displayed evidence
of their previous experience in their gestures, producing higher, more arching
hand gestures after solving on a physical board, and smaller, flatter gestures
after solving on a computer. In the second experiment, healthy participants who
saw high arching hand gestures in an explanation prior to solving the task
subsequently moved the mouse with significantly higher curvature than those who
saw smaller, flatter gestures prior to solving the task. These patterns were
absent in both gesture production and comprehension experiments in patients with 
procedural memory impairment. These findings suggest that the procedural memory
system supports the ability of gesture to drive new learning.

PMCID: PMC4292316
PMID: 25628556  [PubMed]


726. Front Mol Neurosci. 2015 Jan 13;7:104. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2014.00104. eCollection
2014.

Neuroinflammation and J2 prostaglandins: linking impairment of the
ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and mitochondria to neurodegeneration.

Figueiredo-Pereira ME(1), Rockwell P(1), Schmidt-Glenewinkel T(1), Serrano P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Hunter College, The Graduate School and
University Center, City University of New York New York, NY, USA. (2)Department
of Psychology, Hunter College, The Graduate School and University Center, City
University of New York New York, NY, USA.

The immune response of the CNS is a defense mechanism activated upon injury to
initiate repair mechanisms while chronic over-activation of the CNS immune system
(termed neuroinflammation) may exacerbate injury. The latter is implicated in a
variety of neurological and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer and
Parkinson diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, traumatic 
brain injury, HIV dementia, and prion diseases. Cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and
COX-2), which are key enzymes in the conversion of arachidonic acid into
bioactive prostanoids, play a central role in the inflammatory cascade. J2
prostaglandins are endogenous toxic products of cyclooxygenases, and because
their levels are significantly increased upon brain injury, they are actively
involved in neuronal dysfunction induced by pro-inflammatory stimuli. In this
review, we highlight the mechanisms by which J2 prostaglandins (1) exert their
actions, (2) potentially contribute to the transition from acute to chronic
inflammation and to the spreading of neuropathology, (3) disturb the
ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and mitochondrial function, and (4) contribute to
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases, and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, as well as stroke, traumatic brain injury (TBI),
and demyelination in Krabbe disease. We conclude by discussing the therapeutic
potential of targeting the J2 prostaglandin pathway to prevent/delay
neurodegeneration associated with neuroinflammation. In this context, we suggest 
a shift from the traditional view that cyclooxygenases are the most appropriate
targets to treat neuroinflammation, to the notion that J2 prostaglandin pathways 
and other neurotoxic prostaglandins downstream from cyclooxygenases, would offer 
significant benefits as more effective therapeutic targets to treat chronic
neurodegenerative diseases, while minimizing adverse side effects.

PMCID: PMC4292445
PMID: 25628533  [PubMed]


727. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 May;36(5):1951-62. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22748. Epub 2015 Jan 27.

The intrinsic resting state voice network in Parkinson's disease.

New AB(1), Robin DA, Parkinson AL, Eickhoff CR, Reetz K, Hoffstaedter F, Mathys
C, Sudmeyer M, Grefkes C, Larson CR, Ramig LO, Fox PT, Eickhoff SB.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, Research Imaging
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.

Over 90 percent of patients with Parkinson's disease experience speech-motor
impairment, namely, hypokinetic dysarthria characterized by reduced pitch and
loudness. Resting-state functional connectivity analysis of blood oxygen
level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging is a useful measure of
intrinsic neural functioning. We utilized resting-state functional connectivity
modeling to analyze the intrinsic connectivity in patients with Parkinson's
disease within a vocalization network defined by a previous meta-analysis of
speech (Brown et al., 2009). Functional connectivity of this network was assessed
in 56 patients with Parkinson's disease and 56 gender-, age-, and
movement-matched healthy controls. We also had item 5 and 18 of the UPDRS, and
the PDQ-39 Communication subscale available for correlation with the voice
network connectivity strength in patients. The within-group analyses of
connectivity patterns demonstrated a lack of subcortical-cortical connectivity in
patients with Parkinson's disease. At the cortical level, we found robust
(homotopic) interhemispheric connectivity but only inconsistent evidence for many
intrahemispheric connections. When directly contrasted to the control group, we
found a significant reduction of connections between the left thalamus and
putamen, and cortical motor areas, as well as reduced right superior temporal
gyrus connectivity. Furthermore, most symptom measures correlated with right
putamen, left cerebellum, left superior temporal gyrus, right premotor, and left 
Rolandic operculum connectivity in the voice network. The results reflect the
importance of (right) subcortical nodes and the superior temporal gyrus in
Parkinson's disease, enhancing our understanding of the neurobiological
underpinnings of vocalization impairment in Parkinson's disease. Hum Brain Mapp
36:1951-1962, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25627959  [PubMed - in process]


728. Med J Aust. 2015 Feb 2;202(2):91-4.

Anticholinergic burden in older women: not seeing the wood for the trees?

Parkinson L(1), Magin PJ(2), Thomson A(3), Byles JE(2), Caughey GE(4),
Etherton-Beer C(5), Gnjidic D(6), Hilmer SN(6), Lo TK(2), McCowan C(7), Moorin
R(8), Pond CD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Central Queensland University, North Rockhampton, QLD, Australia.
l.parkinson@cqu.edu.au. (2)University of Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(3)General Practice Training Valley to Coast, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(4)Sansom Institute for Health Research, University of South Australia, Adelaide,
SA, Australia. (5)University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia. (6)The
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. (7)University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 
United Kingdom. (8)Curtin University, Perth, WA, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To identify medicines contributing to and describe predictors of
anticholinergic burden among community-dwelling older Australian women.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Retrospective longitudinal analysis of data
from the Australian Longitudinal Study on Women's Health linked to Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme medicines data from 1 January 2008 to 30 December 2010; for 3694 
women born in 1921-1926.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anticholinergic burden calculated from Anticholinergic
Drug Scale (ADS) scores derived from ADS levels (0 to 3) for all medicines used
by each woman, summed over each 6-month period (semester), medicines commonly
used by women with high semester ADS scores (defined as 75th percentile of
scores).
RESULTS: 1126 women (59.9%) used at least one medicine with anticholinergic
properties. The median ADS score was 4 or 5 across all semesters. Most
anticholinergic medicines used by women who had a high anticholinergic burden
(ADS score, ≥ 9) had a low anticholinergic potency (ADS level 1). Increasing age,
cardiovascular disease, and number of other medicines used were predictive of a
higher anticholinergic burden.
CONCLUSIONS: A high anticholinergic medicines burden in this group was driven by 
the use of multiple medicines with lower anticholinergic potency rather than the 
use of medicines with higher potency. This is a novel and important finding for
clinical practice as doctors would readily identify the risk of a high
anticholinergic burden for patients using high potency medicines, but may be less
likely to identify this risk for users of multiple medicines with low
anticholinergic potency.

PMID: 25627741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Brain. 2015 Feb;138(Pt 2):238-9. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu351.

When brawn benefits brain: physical activity and Parkinson's disease risk.

Tanner CM(1), Comella CL(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Director, Parkinson's Disease Research Education and Clinical Centre, San
Francisco Veteran's Affairs Medical Centre and Department of Neurology,
University of California, San Francisco, USA caroline.tanner@ucsf.edu. (2)2 Rush 
Medical Centre, Neurological Sciences, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Comment on
    Brain. 2015 Feb;138(Pt 2):269-75.

PMCID: PMC4394643 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25627233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Brain. 2015 Feb;138(Pt 2):237. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu406.

Brain. Editorial.

Kullmann DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)London, UK.

PMID: 25627232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. J Med Chem. 2015 Feb 12;58(3):1400-19. doi: 10.1021/jm501722s. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

Novel arylalkenylpropargylamines as neuroprotective, potent, and selective
monoamine oxidase B inhibitors for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Huleatt PB(1), Khoo ML, Chua YY, Tan TW, Liew RS, Balogh B, Deme R, Gölöncsér F, 
Magyar K, Sheela DP, Ho HK, Sperlágh B, Mátyus P, Chai CL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chemical and Engineering Sciences , A* STAR (Agency of Science,
Technology and Research), 8 Biomedical Grove, Neuros #07-01, Singapore 138665,
Singapore.

To develop novel neuroprotective agents, a library of novel
arylalkenylpropargylamines was synthesized and tested for inhibitory activities
against monoamine oxidases. From this, a number of highly potent and selective
monoamine oxidase B inhibitors were identified. Selected compounds were also
tested for neuroprotection in in vitro studies with PC-12 cells treated with
6-OHDA and rotenone, respectively. It was observed that some of the compounds
tested yielded a marked increase in survival in PC-12 cells treated with the
neurotoxins. This indicates that these propargylamines are able to confer
protection against the effects of the toxins and may also be considered as novel 
disease-modifying anti-Parkinsonian agents, which are much needed for the therapy
of Parkinson's disease.

PMID: 25627172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. J Pineal Res. 2015 Apr;58(3):262-74. doi: 10.1111/jpi.12212. Epub 2015 Feb 23.

Melatonin enhances L-DOPA therapeutic effects, helps to reduce its dose, and
protects dopaminergic neurons in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced parkinsonism in mice.

Naskar A(1), Prabhakar V, Singh R, Dutta D, Mohanakumar KP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical & Experimental Neuroscience, Division of Cell Biology
and Physiology, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Jadavpur, Kolkata,
India.

L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) reduces symptoms of Parkinson's disease
(PD), but suffers from serious side effects on long-term use. Melatonin (10-30
mg/kg, 6 doses at 10 hr intervals) was investigated to potentiate L-DOPA
therapeutic effects in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-induced parkinsonism in mice. Striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)
immunoreactivity, TH, and phosphorylated ser 40 TH (p-TH) protein levels were
assayed on 7th day. Nigral TH-positive neurons stereology was conducted on serial
sections 2.8 mm from bregma rostrally to 3.74 mm caudally. MPTP caused 39% and
58% decrease, respectively, in striatal fibers and TH protein levels, but
2.5-fold increase in p-TH levels. About 35% TH neurons were lost between 360 and 
600 μm from 940 μm of the entire nigra analyzed, but no neurons were lost between
250 μm rostrally and 220 μm caudally. When L-DOPA in small doses (5-8 mg/kg)
failed to affect MPTP-induced akinesia or catalepsy, co-administration of
melatonin with L-DOPA attenuated these behaviors. Melatonin administration
significantly attenuated MPTP-induced loss in striatal TH fibers (82%), TH (62%) 
and p-TH protein (100%) levels, and nigral neurons (87-100%). Melatonin failed to
attenuate MPTP-induced striatal dopamine depletion. L-DOPA administration (5
mg/kg, once 40 min prior to sacrifice, p.o.) in MPTP- and melatonin-treated mice 
caused significant increase in striatal dopamine (31%), as compared to L-DOPA and
MPTP-treated mice. This was equivalent to 8 mg/kg L-DOPA administration in
parkinsonian mouse. Therefore, prolonged, effective use of L-DOPA in PD with
lesser side effects could be achieved by treating with 60% lower doses of L-DOPA 
along with melatonin.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25626558  [PubMed - in process]


733. J Neurochem. 2015 Jun;133(5):750-65. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13039. Epub 2015 Mar 1.

Quantitative expression proteomics and phosphoproteomics profile of brain from
PINK1 knockout mice: insights into mechanisms of familial Parkinson's disease.

Triplett JC(1), Zhang Z, Sultana R, Cai J, Klein JB, Büeler H, Butterfield DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related, neurodegenerative motor disorder
characterized by progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the
substantia nigra pars compacta and presence of α-synuclein-containing protein
aggregates. Mutations in the mitochondrial Ser/Thr kinase PTEN-induced kinase 1
(PINK1) are associated with an autosomal recessive familial form of early-onset
PD. Recent studies have suggested that PINK1 plays important neuroprotective
roles against mitochondrial dysfunction by phosphorylating and recruiting Parkin,
a cytosolic E3 ubiquitin ligase, to facilitate elimination of damaged
mitochondria via autophagy-lysosomal pathways. Loss of PINK1 in cells and animals
leads to various mitochondrial impairments and oxidative stress, culminating in
dopaminergic neuronal death in humans. Using a 2-D polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis proteomics approach, the differences in expressed brain proteome 
and phosphoproteome between 6-month-old PINK1-deficient mice and wild-type mice
were identified. The observed changes in the brain proteome and phosphoproteome
of mice lacking PINK1 suggest that defects in signaling networks, energy
metabolism, cellular proteostasis, and neuronal structure and plasticity are
involved in the pathogenesis of familial PD. Mutations in PINK1 are associated
with an early-onset form of Parkinson's disease (PD). This study examines changes
in the proteome and phosphoproteome of the PINK1 knockout mouse brain.
Alterations were noted in several key proteins associated with: increased
oxidative stress, aberrant cellular signaling, altered neuronal structure,
decreased synaptic plasticity, reduced neurotransmission, diminished proteostasis
networks, and altered metabolism. 14-3-3ε, 14-3-3 protein epsilon; 3-PGDH,
phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase; ALDOA, aldolase A; APT1, acyl-protein
thioesterase 1; CaM, calmodulin; CBR3, carbonyl reductase [NADPH] 3; ENO2,
gamma-enolase; HPRT, hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase; HSP70,
heat-shock-related 70 kDa protein 2; IDHc, cytoplasmic isocitrate dehydrogenase
[NADP+]; MAPK1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1; MEK1, MAP kinase kinase 1;
MDHc, cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase; NFM, neurofilament medium polypeptide;
NSF, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein; PHB, prohibitin; PINK1,
PTEN-induced putative kinase 1; PPIaseA, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase A;
PSA2, proteasome subunit alpha type-2; TK, transketolase; VDAC-2,
voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein 2.

© 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMID: 25626353  [PubMed - in process]


734. J Urol. 2014 Jul;192(1):159.

Re: nocturia and overnight polysomnography in Parkinson disease.

Griebling TL.

Comment on
    Neurourol Urodyn. 2013 Nov;32(8):1080-5.

PMID: 25625166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Feb 10;112(6):E586-95. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1406549111. Epub 2015 Jan 26.

Therapeutic mechanisms of high-frequency stimulation in Parkinson's disease and
neural restoration via loop-based reinforcement.

Santaniello S(1), McCarthy MM(2), Montgomery EB Jr(3), Gale JT(4), Kopell N(2),
Sarma SV(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Computational Medicine and sabato@engr.uconn.edu. (2)Department 
of Mathematics and Statistics, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215; (3)Greenville
Neuromodulation Center, Greenville, PA 16125; and. (4)Department of Neuroscience,
Lerner Research Institute and Center for Neurological Restoration, Neurological
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195. (5)Institute for Computational 
Medicine and Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21218;

High-frequency deep brain stimulation (HFS) is clinically recognized to treat
parkinsonian movement disorders, but its mechanisms remain elusive. Current
hypotheses suggest that the therapeutic merit of HFS stems from increasing the
regularity of the firing patterns in the basal ganglia (BG). Although this is
consistent with experiments in humans and animal models of Parkinsonism, it is
unclear how the pattern regularization would originate from HFS. To address this 
question, we built a computational model of the cortico-BG-thalamo-cortical loop 
in normal and parkinsonian conditions. We simulated the effects of subthalamic
deep brain stimulation both proximally to the stimulation site and distally
through orthodromic and antidromic mechanisms for several stimulation frequencies
(20-180 Hz) and, correspondingly, we studied the evolution of the firing patterns
in the loop. The model closely reproduced experimental evidence for each
structure in the loop and showed that neither the proximal effects nor the distal
effects individually account for the observed pattern changes, whereas the
combined impact of these effects increases with the stimulation frequency and
becomes significant for HFS. Perturbations evoked proximally and distally
propagate along the loop, rendezvous in the striatum, and, for HFS, positively
overlap (reinforcement), thus causing larger poststimulus activation and more
regular patterns in striatum. Reinforcement is maximal for the clinically
relevant 130-Hz stimulation and restores a more normal activity in the nuclei
downstream. These results suggest that reinforcement may be pivotal to achieve
pattern regularization and restore the neural activity in the nuclei downstream
and may stem from frequency-selective resonant properties of the loop.

PMCID: PMC4330724 [Available on 2015-08-10]
PMID: 25624501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):55-66. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140522.

Use of an online portal to facilitate clinical trial recruitment: a preliminary
analysis of Fox Trial Finder.

Rocker C(1), Cappelletti L(1), Marshall C(1), Meunier CC(1), Brooks DW(1), Sherer
T(1), Chowdhury S(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: As in other therapeutic areas, clinical studies in Parkinson's
disease (PD) face significant recruitment challenges. However, qualitative
surveys suggest that individuals with PD are willing to participate in clinical
research. The Michael J. Fox Foundation therefore established Fox Trial Finder in
2011 to facilitate connection between PD research teams and volunteers.
OBJECTIVE: Characterize the research volunteers (with and without PD) registered 
on Fox Trial Finder as of June 2014, and the published, recruiting studies to
identify trends and highlight gaps between research requirements and available
volunteers.
METHODS: Profiles of volunteers with and without PD were analyzed to explore
trends in geography, demographics, family history and, for those volunteers with 
PD, disease progression and treatment history. Clinical study profiles were
analyzed to determine study type, phase, sponsor, focus, location and eligibility
criteria. The analysis focused on volunteers and studies based in the United
States.
RESULTS: The database contained 26,261 US-based volunteers, including 19,243
volunteers (73%) with PD and 7,018 (27%) controls without PD. The average time
since diagnosis for PD volunteers was 5.7 years and the average age at diagnosis 
was 58 years. Control volunteers were more likely than volunteers with PD to be
female (67% vs. 35%) and to have a family history of PD (49% vs. 12%).
CONCLUSIONS: Fox Trial Finder's registration history to date demonstrates the
high level of willingness among individuals affected by PD to participate in
clinical research and provide a significant amount of personal health information
to facilitate that participation.

PMID: 25624422  [PubMed - in process]


737. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

Usefulness of Genetic Testing in PD and PD Trials: A Balanced Review.

Gasser T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain 
Research, University of Tübingen, and German Center for Neurodegenerative
Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen, Germany.

An increasing proportion of the individual and population risk to develop
Parkinson's disease (PD) can be explained by genetic variants of different effect
strength, forming a continuum from rare high penetrance gain or loss of function 
mutations to relatively common genetic risk variants that only mildly modify
disease risk. In the coming years, further advances in molecular genetic
technologies, in particular the increasing use of next generation sequencing, is 
likely to generate a wealth of new knowledge about the genetic basis of PD.
Although specific treatments for PD based on the underlying genetic etiology will
probably not be available in the near future, genetic testing is therefore likely
to play an increasing role, both in the counselling of individual patients and
their families with respect to the expected disease course and recurrence risks, 
and in the stratification of patient groups in clinical trials. Thus, the
usefulness of genetic testing strongly depends on question asked and needs to be 
considered within each particular setting.

PMID: 25624421  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


738. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2014 Dec 30. pii: S1064-7481(14)00571-5. doi:
10.1016/j.jagp.2014.12.190. [Epub ahead of print]

Patient and Informant Views on Visual Hallucinations in Parkinson Disease.

Urwyler P(1), Nef T(2), Müri RM(3), Killen A(4), Collerton D(5), Burn D(4),
McKeith I(4), Mosimann UP(6).

Author information: 
(1)Gerontechnology & Rehabilitation Group, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Gerontechnology & Rehabilitation Group, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland;
ARTORG Center for Biomedical Engineering Research, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. (3)Gerontechnology & Rehabilitation Group, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland; Perception and Eye Movement Laboratory, Departments of Neurology and
Clinical Research, University Hospital Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. (4)Institute for Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom. (5)Institute for Neuroscience, Newcastle University,
Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom; Northumberland, Tyne & Wear NHS Foundation
Trust, Bensham Hospital, Gateshead, United Kingdom. (6)Gerontechnology &
Rehabilitation Group, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland; University Hospital 
of Old Age Psychiatry, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. Electronic address:
urs.mosimann@gef.be.ch.

OBJECTIVE: Visual hallucinations (VHs) are a very personal experience, and it is 
not clear whether information about them is best provided by informants or
patients. Some patients may not share their hallucinatory experiences with
caregivers to avoid distress or for fear of being labeled insane, and others do
not have informants at all, which limits the use of informant-based
questionnaires. The aim of this study was to compare patient and caregiver views 
about VHs in Parkinson disease (PD), using the North-East Visual Hallucinations
Interview (NEVHI).
METHODS: Fifty-nine PD patient-informant pairs were included. PD patients and
informants were interviewed separately about VHs using the NEVHI. Informants were
additionally interviewed using the four-item version of the Neuropsychiatric
Inventory. Inter-reliability and concurrent validity of the different measures
were compared.
RESULTS: VHs were more commonly reported by patients than informants. The
inter-rater agreement between NEVHI-patient and NEVHI-informant was moderate for 
complex VHs (Cohen's kappa = 0.44; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.13-0.75; t =
3.43, df = 58, p = 0.001) and feeling of presence (Cohen's kappa = 0.35; 95% CI: 
0.00-0.70; t = 2.75, df = 58, p = 0.006), but agreement was poor for illusions
(Cohen's kappa = 0.25; 95% CI: -0.07-0.57; t = 2.36, df = 58, p = 0.018) and
passage hallucinations (Cohen's kappa = 0.16; 95% CI: -0.04-0.36; t = 2.26, df = 
58, p = 0.024).
CONCLUSION: When assessing VHs in PD patients, it is best to rely on patient
information, because not all patients share the details of their hallucinations
with their caregivers.

Copyright © 2015 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25623941  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


739. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Feb;11(2):90-7. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.263. Epub 2015
Jan 27.

A new prion disease: relationship with central and peripheral amyloidoses.

Mead S(1), Reilly MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Prion Unit, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of
Neurology, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK. (2)MRC Centre for Neuromuscular
Diseases, Department of Molecular Neurosciences, UCL Institute of Neurology,
Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

Prion diseases are typically recognized as rapidly progressive dementing
illnesses that also feature myoclonus and cerebellar ataxia. Several families
have now been described with a late-onset hereditary sensory and autonomic
neuropathy caused by truncation of prion protein (PrP), and associated with
systemic amyloidosis, which was a profoundly unexpected phenotype. The chronic
symptoms of this disorder, termed PrP systemic amyloidosis, can be very
disabling, and are comparable to familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) caused by 
transthyretin mutations. Patients require symptomatic therapies directed towards 
control of nausea, diarrhoea, incontinence, neuropathic pain and postural
hypotension. Although the potential transmissibility of this new prion disease is
probably extremely low, we advocate PrP gene analysis before biopsy in the
investigation of peripheral and autonomic neuropathies, or for patients with
unexplained diarrhoea and neuropathy. Prion diseases and the FAPs both display
prominent effects of mutation type on clinical presentation and patterns of
pathology-a fascinating but unexplained observation. Several neurodegenerative
diseases associated with central protein misfolding, such as Huntington and
Parkinson diseases, also have under-recognized peripheral components. Most of the
familial amyloidoses can be explained by known gene mutations, but amino acid
variants in proteins involved in other central neurodegenerative diseases might
direct the initial pathology to the periphery.

PMID: 25623792  [PubMed - in process]


740. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Mar 6;458(2):227-33. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.01.060. Epub 2015 Jan 24.

Myricitrin alleviates MPP⁺-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in a DJ-1-dependent 
manner in SN4741 cells.

Cai Z(1), Zeng W(1), Tao K(1), Lu F(1), Gao G(2), Yang Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Tangdu Hospital, The Fourth Military Medical
University, 569 Xinsi Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710038, China. (2)Department of
Neurosurgery, Tangdu Hospital, The Fourth Military Medical University, 569 Xinsi 
Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710038, China. Electronic address: gguodong@fmmu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Tangdu Hospital, The Fourth Military Medical
University, 569 Xinsi Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710038, China. Electronic address:
qianyang@fmmu.edu.cn.

Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been linked to Parkinson's
disease. DJ-1 is a recessive familial PD gene involved in antioxidative function 
and mitochondrial maintenance. Myricitrin, a flavanoid isolated from the root
bark of Myrica cerifera, has potent antioxidative properties. In the present
study, we investigated the protective effects of myricitrin against
MPP(+)-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in SN4741 cells and attempted to
elucidate the mechanisms underlying this protection. The results showed that
incubating SN4741 cells with myricitrin significantly reduced cell death induced 
by the neurotoxin MPP(+). Furthermore, myricitrin protected cells from
MPP(+)-induced effects on mitochondrial morphology and function. However, these
protective effects were lost under DJ-1-deficient conditions. Thus, our results
suggest that myricitrin alleviates MPP(+)-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and
increases cell viability via DJ-1, indicating that myricitrin is a potential
beneficial agent for age-related neurodegenerative diseases, particularly
Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25623535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Apr;36(4):1765.e1-6. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.12.030. Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Polygenic determinants of Parkinson's disease in a Chinese population.

Guo JF(1), Li K(2), Yu RL(2), Sun QY(2), Wang L(2), Yao LY(2), Hu YC(2), Lv
ZY(2), Luo LZ(2), Shen L(1), Jiang H(1), Yan XX(3), Pan Q(4), Xia K(4), Tang
BS(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha,
Hunan, People's Republic of China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics,
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; Human Key Laboratory of
Neurodegenerative Disorders, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's 
Republic of China; Neurodegenerative Disorders Research Center, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of
Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's 
Republic of China. (3)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; Human Key Laboratory of 
Neurodegenerative Disorders, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's 
Republic of China; Neurodegenerative Disorders Research Center, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China. (4)State Key Laboratory 
of Medical Genetics, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China. (5)Department
of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan,
People's Republic of China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Changsha,
Hunan, People's Republic of China; Human Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative
Disorders, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China;
Neurodegenerative Disorders Research Center, Central South University, Changsha, 
Hunan, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: bstang7398@163.com.

It has been reported that some single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are
associated with the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), but whether a combination
of these SNPs would have a stronger association with PD than any individual SNP
is unknown. Sixteen SNPs located in the 8 genes and/or loci (SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT,
GBA, HLA-DR, BST1, PARK16, and PARK17) were analyzed in a Chinese cohort
consisting of 1061 well-characterized PD patients and 1066 control subjects from 
Central South of Mainland China. We found that Rep1, rs356165, and rs11931074 in 
SNCA gene; G2385R in LRRK2 gene; rs4698412 in BST1 gene; rs1564282 in PARK17; and
L444P in GBA gene were associated with PD with adjustment of sex and age (p <
0.05) in the analysis of 16 variants. PD risk increased when Rep1 and rs11931074,
G2385R, rs1564282, rs4698412; rs11931074 and G2385R, rs1564282, rs4698412; G2385R
and rs1564282, rs4698412; and rs1564282 and rs4698412 were combined for the
association analysis. In addition, PD risk increased cumulatively with the
increasing number of variants (odds ratio for carrying 3 variants, 3.494). In
summary, we confirmed that Rep1, rs356165, and rs11931074 in SNCA gene, G2385R in
LRRK2 gene, rs4698412 in BST1 gene, rs1564282 in PARK17, and L444P in GBA gene
have an independent and combined significant association with PD. SNPs in these 4
genes have a cumulative effect with PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25623333  [PubMed - in process]


742. Exp Neurol. 2015 Mar;265:160-70. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.01.004. Epub 2015 
Jan 23.

Gap junction blockers attenuate beta oscillations and improve forelimb function
in hemiparkinsonian rats.

Phookan S(1), Sutton AC(1), Walling I(1), Smith A(1), O'Connor KA(1), Campbell
JC(1), Calos M(1), Yu W(1), Pilitsis JG(2), Brotchie JM(3), Shin DS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuropharmacology and Neuroscience, Albany Medical College, Albany,
NY USA. (2)Center for Neuropharmacology and Neuroscience, Albany Medical College,
Albany, NY USA; Division of Neurosurgery, Albany Medical Center, Albany, NY USA. 
(3)Division of Brain Imaging and Behavioral Neuroscience Systems, Toronto Western
Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. (4)Center for 
Neuropharmacology and Neuroscience, Albany Medical College, Albany, NY USA.
Electronic address: shind@mail.amc.edu.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by
akinesia, bradykinesia, resting tremors and postural instability. Although
various models have been developed to explain basal ganglia (BG) pathophysiology 
in PD, the recent reports that dominant beta (β) oscillations (12-30Hz) in BG
nuclei of PD patients and parkinsonian animals coincide with motor dysfunction
has led to an emerging idea that these oscillations may be a characteristic of
PD. Due to the recent realization of these oscillations, the cellular and network
mechanism(s) that underlie this process remain ill-defined. Here, we postulate
that gap junctions (GJs) can contribute to β oscillations in the BG of
hemiparkinsonian rats and inhibiting their activity will disrupt neuronal
synchrony, diminish these oscillations and improve motor function. To test this, 
we injected the GJ blockers carbenoxolone (CBX) or octanol in the right globus
pallidus externa (GPe) of anesthetized hemiparkinsonian rats and noted whether
subsequent changes in β oscillatory activity occurred using in vivo
electrophysiology. We found that systemic treatment of 200mg/kg CBX attenuated
normalized GPe β oscillatory activity from 6.10±1.29 arbitrary units (A.U.)
(pre-CBX) to 2.48±0.87 A.U. (post-CBX) with maximal attenuation occurring
90.0±20.5min after injection. The systemic treatment of octanol (350mg/kg) also
decreased β oscillatory activity in a similar manner to CBX treatment with β
oscillatory activity decreasing from 3.58±0.89 (pre-octanol) to 2.57±1.08 after
octanol injection. Next, 1μl CBX (200mg/kg) was directly injected into the GPe of
anesthetized hemiparkinsonian rats; 59.2±19.0min after injection, β oscillations 
in this BG nucleus decreased from 3.62±1.17 A.U. to 1.67±0.62 A.U. Interestingly,
we were able to elicit β oscillations in the GPe of naive non-parkinsonian rats
by increasing GJ activity with 1μl trimethylamine (TMA, 500nM). Finally, we
systemically injected CBX (200mg/kg) into hemiparkinsonian rats which attenuated 
dominant β oscillations in the right GPe and also improved left forepaw akinesia 
in the step test. Conversely, direct injection of TMA into the right GPe of naive
rats induced contralateral left forelimb akinesia. Overall, our results suggest
that GJs contribute to β oscillations in the GPe of hemiparkinsonian rats.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25622779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Longev Healthspan. 2014 Oct 17;3:8. doi: 10.1186/2046-2395-3-8. eCollection 2014.

The secreted protein S100A7 (psoriasin) is induced by telomere dysfunction in
human keratinocytes independently of a DNA damage response and cell cycle
regulators.

de Castro A(1), Minty F(1), Hattinger E(2), Wolf R(2), Parkinson EK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Clinical & Diagnostic Oral Sciences, Institute of Dentistry, Barts 
and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London,
Turner Street, London E1 2AD, UK. (2)Department of Dermatology, Ludwig-Maximilian
University Munich, Frauenlobstrasse 9-11, 80337 Munich, Germany. (3)Centre for
Clinical & Diagnostic Oral Sciences, Institute of Dentistry, Barts and the London
School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, Turner Street,
London E1 2AD, UK ; Blizard Building, 4, Newark Street, London E1 2AT, UK.

BACKGROUND: Replicative senescence is preceded by loss of repeat sequences of DNA
from the telomeres that eventually leads to telomere dysfunction, the
accumulation of irreparable DNA double strand breaks and a DNA damage response
(DDR). However, we have previously reported that whilst telomere dysfunction in
human keratinocytes is associated with a permanent cell cycle arrest, the DDR was
very weak and transcriptional profiling also revealed several molecules normally 
associated with keratinocytes terminal differentiation, including S100A7
(psoriasin).
RESULTS: We show here that S100A7 and the closely related S100A15 (koebnerisin)
are not induced by repairable or irreparable DSBs, ruling out the hypotheses that
these genes are induced either by the low DDR observed or by non-specific cell
cycle arrest. We next tested whether S100A7 was induced by the cell cycle
effectors ARF (p14(ARF)), CDKN2A (p16(INK4A)) and TP53 (p53) and found that,
although all induced a similar level of acute and permanent cell cycle arrest to 
telomere dysfunction, none induced S100A7 (except p53 over-expression at high
levels), showing that cell cycle arrest is not sufficient for its induction. The 
closely related transcript S100A15 was also upregulated by telomere dysfunction, 
to a similar extent by p16(INK4A) and p53 and to a lesser extent by p14(ARF).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that mere cell cycle arrest, the upregulation of
senescence-associated cell cycle effectors and DNA damage are not sufficient for 
the induction of the S100 transcripts; they further suggest that whilst the
induction of S100A15 expression is linked to both telomere-dependent and
-independent senescence, S100A7 expression is specifically associated with
telomere-dependent senescence in normal keratinocytes. As both S100A7 and S100A15
are secreted proteins, they may find utility in the early detection of human
keratinocyte telomere dysfunction and senescence.

PMCID: PMC4304136
PMID: 25621169  [PubMed]


744. Front Aging Neurosci. 2015 Jan 9;6:340. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00340.
eCollection 2014.

Beneficial effects of nicotine, cotinine and its metabolites as potential agents 
for Parkinson's disease.

Barreto GE(1), Iarkov A(2), Moran VE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Biochemistry, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana
Bogotá, D. C., Colombia. (2)Center of Research in Biomedical Sciences,
Universidad Autónoma de Chile Santiago, Chile ; Research & Development Service,
Bay Pines VA Healthcare System Bay Pines, FL, USA. (3)Center of Research in
Biomedical Sciences, Universidad Autónoma de Chile Santiago, Chile ; Research &
Development Service, Bay Pines VA Healthcare System Bay Pines, FL, USA ; Research
Service, James A Haley Veterans' Hospital Tampa, FL, USA ; Department of
Molecular Medicine, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Tampa, FL,
USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, which is
characterized by neuroinflammation, dopaminergic neuronal cell death and motor
dysfunction, and for which there are no proven effective treatments. The negative
correlation between tobacco consumption and PD suggests that tobacco-derived
compounds can be beneficial against PD. Nicotine, the more studied alkaloid
derived from tobacco, is considered to be responsible for the beneficial
behavioral and neurological effects of tobacco use in PD. However, several
metabolites of nicotine, such as cotinine, also increase in the brain after
nicotine administration. The effect of nicotine and some of its derivatives on
dopaminergic neurons viability, neuroinflammation, and motor and memory
functions, have been investigated using cellular and rodent models of PD. Current
evidence shows that nicotine, and some of its derivatives diminish oxidative
stress and neuroinflammation in the brain and improve synaptic plasticity and
neuronal survival of dopaminergic neurons. In vivo these effects resulted in
improvements in mood, motor skills and memory in subjects suffering from PD
pathology. In this review, we discuss the potential benefits of nicotine and its 
derivatives for treating PD.

PMCID: PMC4288130
PMID: 25620929  [PubMed]


745. Front Neurosci. 2015 Jan 9;8:441. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00441. eCollection
2014.

Computational deconvolution of genome wide expression data from Parkinson's and
Huntington's disease brain tissues using population-specific expression analysis.

Capurro A(1), Bodea LG(2), Schaefer P(3), Luthi-Carter R(1), Perreau VM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Leicester
Leicester, UK. (2)Neural Regeneration Unit, Institute of Reconstructive
Neurobiology, University of Bonn Bonn, Germany ; Clem Jones Centre for Ageing
Dementia Research, Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland St
Lucia, QLD, Australia. (3)DFG-Center for Regenerative Therapies Dresden Dresden, 
Germany. (4)The Bioinformatics Core and The Synaptic Neurobiology Laboratory, The
Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health Parkville, VIC, Australia.

The characterization of molecular changes in diseased tissues gives insight into 
pathophysiological mechanisms and is important for therapeutic development.
Genome-wide gene expression analysis has proven valuable for identifying
biological processes in neurodegenerative diseases using post mortem human brain 
tissue and numerous datasets are publically available. However, many studies
utilize heterogeneous tissue samples consisting of multiple cell types, all of
which contribute to global gene expression values, confounding biological
interpretation of the data. In particular, changes in numbers of neuronal and
glial cells occurring in neurodegeneration confound transcriptomic analyses,
particularly in human brain tissues where sample availability and controls are
limited. To identify cell specific gene expression changes in neurodegenerative
disease, we have applied our recently published computational deconvolution
method, population specific expression analysis (PSEA). PSEA estimates
cell-type-specific expression values using reference expression measures, which
in the case of brain tissue comprises mRNAs with cell-type-specific expression in
neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia. As an exercise in PSEA
implementation and hypothesis development regarding neurodegenerative diseases,
we applied PSEA to Parkinson's and Huntington's disease (PD, HD) datasets. Genes 
identified as differentially expressed in substantia nigra pars compacta neurons 
by PSEA were validated using external laser capture microdissection data. Network
analysis and Annotation Clustering (DAVID) identified molecular processes
implicated by differential gene expression in specific cell types. The results of
these analyses provided new insights into the implementation of PSEA in brain
tissues and additional refinement of molecular signatures in human HD and PD.

PMCID: PMC4288238
PMID: 25620908  [PubMed]


746. Br J Neurosurg. 2015 Jan 24:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in Parkinson's disease
2003-2013: Where are we another 10 years on?

Alamri A(1), Ughratdar I, Samuel M, Ashkan K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital , London , UK.

High-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is
now ending its second decade as an established modality for treating Parkinson's 
disease (PD). Knowledge of the pathophysiology of PD and clinical applications
for STN DBS is burgeoning. Despite this, the mechanism of how STN DBS works
remains an enigma. Furthermore, motor symptoms have been seen as a focus for
improved quality of life after STN DBS yet non-motor symptoms also play an
integral role in determining treatment outcome. In this paper, new evidence for
the mechanisms of action of STN DBS is discussed and the impact of the therapy on
motor and non-motor symptoms of PD is analysed. Future directions of treatment
and emerging technologies are also reviewed.

PMID: 25619979  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


747. Neuropharmacology. 2015 May;92:108-15. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.01.007.
Epub 2015 Jan 23.

Dopamine depletion of the striatum causes a cell-type specific reorganization of 
GluN2B- and GluN2D-containing NMDA receptors.

Zhang X(1), Chergui K(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Karolinska Institute, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Section
of Molecular Neurophysiology, Von Eulers Väg 8, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
Electronic address: xiaoqun.zhang@ki.se. (2)The Karolinska Institute, Department 
of Physiology and Pharmacology, Section of Molecular Neurophysiology, Von Eulers 
Väg 8, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: karima.chergui@ki.se.

The GluN2B subunit of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) is an attractive drug target for
therapeutic intervention in Parkinson's disease (PD). We have used whole-cell
patch clamp recordings in brain slices to examine the contribution of GluN2B and 
GluN2D to functional NMDARs in the striatum of the unilateral
6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned mouse model of PD. We found that current/voltage
relationships of NMDAR-mediated excitatory post synaptic currents were altered in
a population of medium spiny projection neurons (MSNs) in the dopamine-depleted
striatum. Using antagonists for GluN2B- and GluN2D-containing NMDARs, we found
that GluN2B contributes to functional NMDARs in MSNs in the intact striatum and
in the striatum of control mice. The function of GluN2B-containing NMDARs is
however reduced in MSNs from the dopamine-depleted striatum. GluN2D is absent in 
MSNs from intact striatum and from control mice, but the contribution of this
subunit to functional NMDARs is increased in the dopamine-depleted striatum.
These changes in the subunit composition of NMDARs are associated with a
decreased protein level of GluN2B and an increased level of GluN2D in the
dopamine-depleted striatum. In cholinergic interneurons from the intact striatum 
and control mice, both GluN2B and GluN2D contribute to functional NMDARs. The
functions of GluN2D, and to some extent GluN2B, are reduced in the
dopamine-depleted striatum. Our findings demonstrate a cell-type specific
reorganization of GluN2B and GluN2D in a mouse model of PD and suggest GluN2D as 
a potential target for the management of the disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619731  [PubMed - in process]


748. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Feb 15;349(1-2):174-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2015.01.013. Epub
2015 Jan 15.

Putaminal hypointensity on T2*-weighted MR imaging is the most practically useful
sign in diagnosing multiple system atrophy: A preliminary study.

Sugiyama A(1), Ito S(2), Suichi T(3), Sakurai T(4), Mukai H(5), Yokota H(5),
Yonezu T(3), Kuwabara S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University, Chiba,
Japan. Electronic address: chinneosyo0624@yahoo.co.jp. (2)Department of
Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan; Office of
Medical Education, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurology, Japanese Red Cross Narita Hospital, Narita, Japan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University, Chiba,
Japan. (5)Department of Radiology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University,
Chiba, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To identify useful MRI abnormalities in the putamen for diagnosing
multiple system atrophy.
METHODS: Patients with multiple system atrophy (n=15), Parkinson's disease
(n=16), or progressive supranuclear palsy (n=9) and healthy controls (n=10) were 
enrolled. Using a visual analog scale, 4 examiners independently rated
high-intensity signals along the lateral putamen on T2-weighted and T2*-weighted 
images, low-intensity signals within the putamen on T2-weighted and T2*-weighted 
images, and putaminal atrophy. Receiver operating characteristic analyses were
performed, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was
calculated.
RESULTS: For differentiating multiple system atrophy from progressive
supranuclear palsy, Parkinson's disease, and healthy controls, the mean area
under the curve values was the highest for low-intensity signals within the
putamen on T2*-weighted images (0.797, 0.867, 0.896, respectively). Variations in
the area under the curve values among the 4 examiners were the smallest in
low-intensity signals within the putamen on T2*-weighted images. Good inter-rater
reliability was achieved for low-intensity signals within the putamen on
T2*-weighted images and high-intensity signals along the lateral putamen on
T2*-weighted images.
CONCLUSION: Low-intensity signals within the putamen on T2*-weighted images is
the most useful MRI abnormality for diagnosing multiple system atrophy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619571  [PubMed - in process]


749. Neuropathology. 2015 Jan 26. doi: 10.1111/neup.12189. [Epub ahead of print]

Arizona Study of Aging and Neurodegenerative Disorders and Brain and Body
Donation Program.

Beach TG(1), Adler CH, Sue LI, Serrano G, Shill HA, Walker DG, Lue L, Roher AE,
Dugger BN, Maarouf C, Birdsill AC, Intorcia A, Saxon-Labelle M, Pullen J,
Scroggins A, Filon J, Scott S, Hoffman B, Garcia A, Caviness JN, Hentz JG,
Driver-Dunckley E, Jacobson SA, Davis KJ, Belden CM, Long KE, Malek-Ahmadi M,
Powell JJ, Gale LD, Nicholson LR, Caselli RJ, Woodruff BK, Rapscak SZ, Ahern GL, 
Shi J, Burke AD, Reiman EM, Sabbagh MN.

Author information: 
(1)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.

The Brain and Body Donation Program (BBDP) at Banner Sun Health Research
Institute (http://www.brainandbodydonationprogram.org) started in 1987 with
brain-only donations and currently has banked more than 1600 brains. More than
430 whole-body donations have been received since this service was commenced in
2005. The collective academic output of the BBDP is now described as the Arizona 
Study of Aging and Neurodegenerative Disorders (AZSAND). Most BBDP subjects are
enrolled as cognitively normal volunteers residing in the retirement communities 
of metropolitan Phoenix, Arizona. Specific recruitment efforts are also directed 
at subjects with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and cancer. The median 
age at death is 82. Subjects receive standardized general medical, neurological, 
neuropsychological and movement disorders assessments during life and more than
90% receive full pathological examinations by medically licensed pathologists
after death. The Program has been funded through a combination of internal,
federal and state of Arizona grants as well as user fees and pharmaceutical
industry collaborations. Subsets of the Program are utilized by the US National
Institute on Aging Arizona Alzheimer's Disease Core Center and the US National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke National Brain and Tissue Resource
for Parkinson's Disease and Related Disorders. Substantial funding has also been 
received from the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research. The Program
has made rapid autopsy a priority, with a 3.0-hour median post-mortem interval
for the entire collection. The median RNA Integrity Number (RIN) for frozen brain
and body tissue is 8.9 and 7.4, respectively. More than 2500 tissue requests have
been served and currently about 200 are served annually. These requests have been
made by more than 400 investigators located in 32 US states and 15 countries.
Tissue from the BBDP has contributed to more than 350 publications and more than 
200 grant-funded projects.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Neuropathology.

PMID: 25619230  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


750. PLoS One. 2015 Jan 24;10(1):e0116641. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116641.
eCollection 2015.

New roles of glycosaminoglycans in α-synuclein aggregation in a cellular model of
Parkinson disease.

Lehri-Boufala S(1), Ouidja MO(1), Barbier-Chassefière V(1), Hénault E(1),
Raisman-Vozari R(2), Garrigue-Antar L(1), Papy-Garcia D(1), Morin C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris-Est Créteil, Laboratoire CRRET-EAC CNRS 7149, 61 Avenue de
Général de Gaulle, 94010, Créteil, France. (2)CNRS UMR 7225, Hôpital de la
Salpêtrière-Bâtiment, ICM (Centre de Recherche de l'Institut du Cerveau et de la 
Moelle épinière), CRICM, Thérapeutique Expérimentale de la Neurodégénérescence,
Université Pierre et Marie Curie, UPMC, 75651, Paris, France.

The causes of Parkinson disease (PD) remain mysterious, although some evidence
supports mitochondrial dysfunctions and α-synuclein accumulation in Lewy bodies
as major events. The abnormal accumulation of α-synuclein has been associated
with a deficiency in the ubiquitin-proteasome system and the autophagy-lysosomal 
pathway. Cathepsin D (cathD), the major lysosomal protease responsible of
α-synuclein degradation was described to be up-regulated in PD model. As
glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) regulate cathD activity, and have been recently
suggested to participate in PD physiopathology, we investigated their role in
α-synuclein accumulation by their intracellular regulation of cathD activity. In 
a classical neuroblastoma cell model of PD induced by MPP+, the genetic
expression of GAGs-biosynthetic enzymes was modified, leading to an increase of
GAGs amounts whereas intracellular level of α-synuclein increased. The absence of
sulfated GAGs increased intracellular cathD activity and limited α-synuclein
accumulation. GAGs effects on cathD further suggested that specific sequences or 
sulfation patterns could be responsible for this regulation. The present study
identifies, for the first time, GAGs as new regulators of the lysosome
degradation pathway, regulating cathD activity and affecting two main biological 
processes, α-synuclein aggregation and apoptosis. Finally, this opens new
insights into intracellular GAGs functions and new fields of investigation for
glycobiological approaches in PD and neurobiology.

PMCID: PMC4305359
PMID: 25617759  [PubMed - in process]


751. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Jul;1854(7):779-787. doi:
10.1016/j.bbapap.2015.01.007. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Proteomic profiling in MPTP monkey model for early Parkinson disease biomarker
discovery.

Lin X(1), Shi M(2), Masilamoni JG(3), Dator R(2), Movius J(2), Aro P(2), Smith
Y(4), Zhang J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle,
WA, USA; School of Life Sciences, Fujian Agricultural and Forestry University,
Fuzhou, Fujian, China. (2)Department of Pathology, University of Washington
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA. (3)Yerkes National Primate Research Center,
Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA. (4)Yerkes National Primate Research Center,
Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA; Department of Neurology, Emory University,
Atlanta, GA, USA. (5)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: zhangj@uw.edu.

Identification of reliable and robust biomarkers is crucial to enable early
diagnosis of Parkinson disease (PD) and monitoring disease progression. While
imperfect, the slow, chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-induced non-human primate animal model system of parkinsonism is an
abundant source of pre-motor or early stage PD biomarker discovery. Here, we
present a study of a MPTP rhesus monkey model of PD that utilizes complementary
quantitative iTRAQ-based proteomic, glycoproteomics and phosphoproteomics
approaches. We compared the glycoprotein, non-glycoprotein, and phosphoprotein
profiles in the putamen of asymptomatic and symptomatic MPTP-treated monkeys as
well as saline injected controls. We identified 86 glycoproteins, 163
non-glycoproteins, and 71 phosphoproteins differentially expressed in the
MPTP-treated groups. Functional analysis of the data sets inferred the biological
processes and pathways that link to neurodegeneration in PD and related
disorders. Several potential biomarkers identified in this study have already
been translated for their usefulness in PD diagnosis in human subjects and
further validation investigations are currently under way. In addition to
providing potential early PD biomarkers, this comprehensive quantitative
proteomic study may also shed insights regarding the mechanisms underlying early 
PD development. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled:
Neuroproteomics: Applications in neuroscience and neurology.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25617661  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


752. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):287-91. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.031. Epub 2015 Jan 5.

The burden of non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease using a self-completed
non-motor questionnaire: a simple grading system.

Chaudhuri KR(1), Sauerbier A(2), Rojo JM(3), Sethi K(4), Schapira AH(5), Brown
RG(6), Antonini A(7), Stocchi F(8), Odin P(9), Bhattacharya K(10), Tsuboi Y(11), 
Abe K(12), Rizos A(2), Rodriguez-Blazquez C(13), Martinez-Martin P(14).

Author information: 
(1)National Parkinson Foundation International Centre of Excellence, King's
College London, London, UK; National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Mental 
Health Biomedical Research Centre and Dementia Unit at South London and Maudsley 
NHS Foundation Trust and King's College London, UK; Department of Clinical
Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, London, UK.
(2)National Parkinson Foundation International Centre of Excellence, King's
College London, London, UK. (3)Department of Statistics, Centre of Human and
Social Sciences, Spanish Council for Scientific Research, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Movement Disorders Program, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA, USA.
(5)UCL Institute of Neurology, Department of Clinical Neurosciences London,
London, UK. (6)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Mental Health
Biomedical Research Centre and Dementia Unit at South London and Maudsley NHS
Foundation Trust and King's College London, UK; Department of Psychology,
Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, London, UK. (7)Department for
Parkinson's Disease, IRCCS San Camillo, Venice, Italy. (8)Department of
Neurology, IRCCS San Raffaele, Rome, Italy. (9)University of Lund, Lund, Sweden. 
(10)Bangur Institute of Neurology, Kolkata, India. (11)Department of Neurology,
Faculty of Medicine, Fukuoka University, Fukuoka, Japan. (12)Department of
Community Health Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine Division of Neurology, Hyogo
College of Medicine Hospital, Japan. (13)National Centre of Epidemiology and
Centre for Networked Biomedical Research on Neurodegenerative Diseases
(CIBERNED), Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain. (14)National Centre of
Epidemiology and Centre for Networked Biomedical Research on Neurodegenerative
Diseases (CIBERNED), Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain. Electronic
address: pmartinez@isciii.es.

BACKGROUND: Non-motor symptoms (NMS) of Parkinson's disease (PD) affect virtually
every patient, yet they are under-recognized and under-treated. The NMS
Questionnaire (NMSQuest) is a validated 30-item self-assessment instrument useful
for NMS screening in clinic.
OBJECTIVE: Development of a straight forward grading classification of the burden
of non-motor symptoms in PD based on the number of NMS as assessed by the NMS
Questionnaire.
METHODS: In an observational, cross-sectional, international study of 383
consecutive patients distribution of the declared NMS as per NMSQuest was
analyzed according to previously published levels based on the Non-Motor Symptoms
Scale and also the median and interquartile range (IR, percentiles 25 and 75) of 
the total NMSQuest scores. After post hoc checking, these values were proposed as
cut-off points for estimating NMS burden based only on the accumulation of
symptoms.
RESULTS: Burden and number of NMS correlate closely (r ≥ 0.80). On the basis of
this finding, five levels (0 = No NMS to 4 = Very severe) of NMSQuest grading
were proposed after identification of their cut-offs by ordinal logistic
regression and median and interquartile range distribution. These values
coincided almost completely with those obtained by median and interquartile range
in an independent sample. Concordance between this classification and HY staging 
was weak (weighted kappa = 0.30), but was substantial (weighted kappa = 0.68)
with the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale grading.
CONCLUSION: Completion of NMSQuest and subsequent grading of the burden could
allow the health care professional to approach the severity of NMS burden using
the self completed NMSQuest in a primary care setting.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25616694  [PubMed - in process]


753. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):351-2. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.002. Epub 2014 Dec 11.

Reply: The 'cognitions' index of the Parkinson's disease questionnaire-39 relates
to sleep disturbances and hallucinations.

Jones JD(1), Hass C(2), Okun MS(3), Bowers D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, McKnight Brain Institute,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Movement Disorders and
Neurorestoration, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville,
FL, USA. (2)Department of Applied Physiology and Kinesiology, McKnight Brain
Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Movement
Disorders and Neurorestoration, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, McKnight Brain Institute,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Movement Disorders and
Neurorestoration, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville,
FL, USA. (4)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, McKnight Brain
Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Department of Neurology, 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for
Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration, McKnight Brain Institute, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. Electronic address: dawnbowers@phhp.ufl.edu.

Comment on
    Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2014 Nov;20(11):1236-41.
    Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):349-50.

PMID: 25616693  [PubMed - in process]


754. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 20;290(12):7426-35. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.620484. Epub 2015
Jan 23.

Intracellular Screening of a Peptide Library to Derive a Potent Peptide Inhibitor
of α-Synuclein Aggregation.

Cheruvara H(1), Allen-Baume VL(1), Kad NM(2), Mason JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the School of Biological Sciences, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park,
Colchester, Essex CO4 3SQ. (2)the School of Biosciences, University of Kent,
Canterbury, Kent CT2 7NJ, and. (3)the Department of Biology and Biochemistry,
University of Bath, Claverton Down, Bath BA2 7AY, United Kingdom
j.mason@bath.ac.uk.

Aggregation of α-synuclein (α-syn) into toxic fibrils is a pathogenic hallmark of
Parkinson disease (PD). Studies have focused largely on residues 71-82, yet most 
early-onset mutations are located between residues 46 and 53. A semirationally
designed 209,952-member library based entirely on this region was constructed,
containing all wild-type residues and changes associated with early-onset PD.
Intracellular cell survival screening and growth competition isolated a
10-residue peptide antagonist that potently inhibits α-syn aggregation and
associated toxicity at a 1:1 stoichiometry. This was verified using continuous
growth measurements and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium
bromide cytotoxicity studies. Atomic force microscopy and circular dichroism on
the same samples showed a random-coil structure and no oligomers. A new region of
α-syn for inhibitor targeting has been highlighted, together with the approach of
using a semirational design and intracellular screening. The peptides can then be
used as candidates for modification in drugs capable of slowing or even
preventing the onset of PD.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4367252 [Available on 2016-03-20]
PMID: 25616660  [PubMed - in process]


755. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2014;114(10):117-21.

[Pharmacoeconomic aspects of using levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel in
Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Russian]

Rudakova AV, Yakupov EZ.

The application of levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG), which provides the
more reliable control of the disease and decrease in progression rates compared
to standard treatment, is a variant of treatment of severe forms of Parkinson's
disease. An analysis of pharmacoeconomic aspects of LCIG use in foreign countries
has shown that this treatment significantly improves expectancy of patients and
reduces the costs of professional care. The approximate threshold values of costs
per 1 QALY recommended for reimbursement of intervention costs are £30,000 in the
United Kingdom and €50,000 in Sweden. In respect to intervention, LCIG can be
regarded as an acceptable drug.

PMID: 25614914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Int J Obes (Lond). 2015 Apr;39(4):629-32. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2015.4. Epub 2015 Jan 
23.

Sexual dimorphism in relation to adipose tissue and intrahepatocellular lipid
deposition in early infancy.

Gale C(1), Logan KM(1), Jeffries S(1), Parkinson JR(1), Santhakumaran S(1),
Uthaya S(1), Durighel G(2), Alavi A(3), Thomas EL(4), Bell JD(4), Modi N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neonatal Medicine, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital Campus,
Imperial College London, London, UK. (2)Robert Steiner MRI Unit, Hammersmith
Campus, Imperial College London, London, UK. (3)Radiology Department, St Mary's
Hospital, London, UK. (4)Department of Life Sciences, University of Westminster, 
London, UK.

Sexual dimorphism in adiposity is well described in adults, but the age at which 
differences first manifest is uncertain. Using a prospective cohort, we describe 
longitudinal changes in directly measured adiposity and intrahepatocellular lipid
(IHCL) in relation to sex in healthy term infants. At median ages of 13 and 63
days, infants underwent quantification of adipose tissue depots by whole-body
magnetic resonance imaging and measurement of IHCL by in vivo proton magnetic
resonance spectroscopy. Longitudinal data were obtained from 70 infants (40 boys 
and 30 girls). In the neonatal period girls are more adipose in relation to body 
size than boys. At follow-up (median age 63 days), girls remained significantly
more adipose. The greater relative adiposity that characterises girls is
explained by more subcutaneous adipose tissue and this becomes increasingly
apparent by follow-up. No significant sex differences were seen in IHCL.
Sex-specific differences in infant adipose tissue distribution are in keeping
with those described in later life, and suggest that sexual dimorphism in
adiposity is established in early infancy.

PMCID: PMC4389723
PMID: 25614088  [PubMed - in process]


757. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):151-63. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140448.

Neuropsychological effects of deep brain stimulation in subjects with early stage
Parkinson's disease in a randomized clinical trial.

Tramontana MG(1), Molinari AL(2), Konrad PE(3), Davis TL(2), Wylie SA(2), Neimat 
JS(3), May AT(4), Phibbs FT(2), Hedera P(2), Gill CE(5), Salomon RM(1), Wang
L(6), Song Y(6), Charles D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN,
USA. (2)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
TN, USA. (3)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, TN, USA. (4)School of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, 
USA. (5)Department of Neurology, Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective treatment for patients
with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) and motor symptom complications. Recently,
attention has been focused on whether offering DBS earlier in the course of PD is
beneficial.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of DBS on
neuropsychological functioning in subjects with early stage PD.
METHODS: Thirty subjects with early PD (Hoehn & Yahr Stage II off medication)
were randomized to optimal drug therapy (ODT) (n = 15) or bilateral subthalamic
nucleus (STN) DBS+ODT (n = 15) after completing an expanded informed consent
process specially designed for the study and administered by a medical ethicist
and the study team. Comprehensive neuropsychological testing was completed in the
treatment-withdrawn state at baseline and at 12 month and 24 month follow-ups.
RESULTS: Two serious adverse events occurred in the DBS+ODT group. One subject
experienced a stroke and another developed infected hardware that contributed to 
specific declines in cognitive functioning. However, compared to the ODT group,
the remaining subjects in the DBS+ODT group exhibited modest reductions on a few 
measures of attention, executive function, and word fluency at 12 months. These
differences were largely diminished at 24 months, especially when those with the 
adverse events were excluded.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this trial provide novel data regarding the effects
of DBS on cognitive function in early PD. We believe that the findings and
insights from this trial can help guide the safety analysis and risk-benefit
evaluations in future discussions of DBS in early stage PD.

PMID: 25613351  [PubMed - in process]


758. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):175-85. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140479.

Fatty acid composition of the anterior cingulate cortex indicates a high
susceptibility to lipid peroxidation in Parkinson's disease.

Abbott SK(1), Jenner AM(1), Spiro AS(1), Batterham M(2), Halliday GM(3), Garner
B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Illawarra Health and Medical Research Institute, University of Wollongong,
NSW, Australia School of Biological Sciences, University of Wollongong, NSW,
Australia. (2)National Institute of Applied Statistics Research Australia,
University of Wollongong, Wollongong NSW, Australia. (3)Neuroscience Research
Australia and the University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress contributes to Parkinson's disease (PD) etiology.
Although previous studies have focused on sources of free radical formation in
brain regions affected by PD, less is known regarding changes in lipid
composition and the implications for susceptibility to peroxidation.
OBJECTIVE: To assess fatty acid profiles from control and PD tissues that are
susceptible to PD pathology but devoid of severe destruction.
METHODS: We used gas chromatography methods to assess fatty acid profiles from
control (n = 10) and PD (n = 9) postmortem tissues. We focused on the anterior
cingulate cortex (ACC), a region that accumulates alpha-synuclein, but does not
undergo severe destruction, and compared this to the occipital cortex, a region
that is pathologically spared.
RESULTS: Our data indicate a significant 33% increase in the proportion of
polyunsaturated fatty acids (mol%) present in the PD ACC as compared to control
ACC. Increases in highly unsaturated 22:5n-6 and 22:6n-3 fatty acids were
particularly pronounced (109% and 73%, respectively). Calculation of a
peroxidation index (accounting for total fatty acyl double bounds) indicated a
44% increase in susceptibility of the PD ACC to lipid peroxidation compared to
control ACC. Such differences were not detected in the occipital cortex from the 
same donors. Assessment of F2-isprostane levels confirmed that PD tissue lipids
were more oxidized than controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The global composition of fatty acids in the PD ACC is altered in a 
way that increases susceptibility to peroxidation in a region-specific manner.
This has important implications for PD, supporting the oxidative stress
hypothesis of PD pathogenesis.

PMID: 25613350  [PubMed - in process]


759. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):43-7. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140514.

The retropulsion test: a good evaluation of postural instability in Parkinson's
disease?

Nonnekes J(1), Goselink R(2), Weerdesteyn V(3), Bloem BR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour, Department of Rehabilitation, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (2)Radboud
University Medical Center, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, 
Department of Neurology, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (3)Radboud University Medical
Center, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Department of
Rehabilitation, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Sint Maartenskliniek Research,
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Postural instability is a disabling feature of Parkinson's disease (PD),
contributing to recurrent falls and fall-related injuries. The retropulsion test 
is widely regarded as the gold standard to evaluate postural instability, and is 
therefore a key component of the neurological examination in PD. Many variants
exist, which confuses both clinical practice and research. Here, we evaluate the 
merits of this test by discussing three common variants: (1) the pull test as
described in the MDS-UPDRS scale; (2) using an unexpected shoulder pull, without 
prior warning; and (3) the push-and-release test. All variants are a quick method
to index the degree of postural instability, but the outcome can vary
considerably due to variability in test execution and -interpretation. This
partially explains why the retropulsion test fails to predict future falls in PD.
Another explanation is that falling results from the complex interplay between
gait, balance, cognitive decline and environmental factors, and the retropulsion 
test captures only part of that. We conclude with several recommendations for
current clinical practice.

PMID: 25613349  [PubMed - in process]


760. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2015 Jan 22. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12442. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of diabetes, heart disease, hypertension and stroke in mid- and
older-aged women: Comparing self-report and administrative hospital data records.

Navin Cristina TJ(1), Stewart Williams JA, Parkinson L, Sibbritt DW, Byles JE.

Author information: 
(1)Population Health Division, Centre for Epidemiology and Evidence, NSW Ministry
of Health, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

AIM: To estimate the prevalence of diabetes, heart disease, hypertension and
stroke in self-report and hospital data in two cohorts of women; measure
sensitivity and agreement between data sources; and compare between cohorts.
METHODS: Women born between 1946-1951 and 1921-1926 who participated in the
Australian Longitudinal Study on Women's Health (ALSWH); were New South Wales
residents; and admitted to hospital (2004-2008) were included in the present
study. The prevalence of diabetes, heart disease, hypertension and stroke was
estimated using self-report (case 1 at latest survey, case 2 across multiple
surveys) and hospital records. Agreement (kappa) and sensitivity (%) were
calculated. Logistic regression measured the association between patient
characteristics and agreement.
RESULTS: Hypertension had the highest prevalence and estimates were higher for
older women: 32.5% case 1, 45.4% case 2, 12.8% in hospital data (1946-1951
cohort); 57.8% case 1, 73.2% case 2, 38.2% in hospital data (1921-1926 cohort).
Agreement was substantial for diabetes: κ = 0.75 case 1, κ = 0.70 case 2
(1946-1951 cohort); κ = 0.77 case 1, κ = 0.80 case 2 (1921-1926 cohort), and
lower for other conditions. The 1946-1951 cohort had 2.08 times the odds of
agreement for hypertension (95% CI 1.56 to 2.78; P < 0.0001), and 6.25 times the 
odds of agreement for heart disease (95% CI 4.35 to 10.0; P < 0.0001), compared
with the 1921-1926 cohort.
CONCLUSION: Substantial agreement was found for diabetes, indicating accuracy of 
ascertainment using self-report or hospital data. Self-report data appears to be 
less accurate for heart disease and stroke. Hypertension was underestimated in
hospital data. These findings have implications for epidemiological studies
relying on self-report or administrative data. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2015; ●●:
●●-●●.

© 2015 Japan Geriatrics Society.

PMID: 25613080  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


761. Curr Aging Sci. 2014;7(3):155-60.

Increased mitochondrial DNA deletions in substantia nigra dopamine neurons of the
aged rat.

Parkinson GM, Dayas CV, Smith DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, Medical Sciences Building, Room
306C, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia.
douglas.smith@newcastle.edu.au.

The dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra (SN), which constitute the
origin of the nigrostriatal system, are vulnerable to age-related degenerative
processes. For example, in humans there is a relatively small age-related loss of
neurons but a marked decline of the dopaminergic phenotype associated with
impaired voluntary motor control. However, the mechanisms responsible for the
dysfunction and degeneration of SN dopamine neurons remain poorly understood. One
potential contributor is mitochondrial dysfunction, resulting from an increased
abundance of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations such as deletions. Human studies
have identified relatively high levels of mtDNA deletions in these cells in both 
aging and Parkinson's disease (>35%), with a higher abundance of deletions (>60%)
in individual neurons with mitochondrial dysfunction. However, it is unknown
whether similar mtDNA mutations occur in other species such as the rat. In the
present study, we quantified mtDNA deletion abundance in laser microdissected SN 
dopaminergic neurons from young and old F344 rats. Our results indicate that
mtDNA deletions accumulated with age, with approximately 20% more mtDNA deletions
in SN dopaminergic neurons from old compared to young animals. Thus, while rat SN
dopaminergic neurons do accumulate mtDNA deletions with aging, this does not
reflect the deletion burden in humans, and other mechanisms may be operating to
compensate for age-related mtDNA damage in the rat SN dopaminergic neurons.

PMID: 25612740  [PubMed - in process]


762. Neuron. 2015 Jan 21;85(2):257-73. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2014.12.007.

The roles of PINK1, parkin, and mitochondrial fidelity in Parkinson's disease.

Pickrell AM(1), Youle RJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Section, Surgical Neurology Branch, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)Biochemistry Section, Surgical Neurology Branch, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
Electronic address: youler@ninds.nih.gov.

Understanding the function of genes mutated in hereditary forms of Parkinson's
disease yields insight into disease etiology and reveals new pathways in cell
biology. Although mutations or variants in many genes increase the susceptibility
to Parkinson's disease, only a handful of monogenic causes of parkinsonism have
been identified. Biochemical and genetic studies reveal that the products of two 
genes that are mutated in autosomal recessive parkinsonism, PINK1 and Parkin,
normally work together in the same pathway to govern mitochondrial quality
control, bolstering previous evidence that mitochondrial damage is involved in
Parkinson's disease. PINK1 accumulates on the outer membrane of damaged
mitochondria, activates Parkin's E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, and recruits
Parkin to the dysfunctional mitochondrion. Then, Parkin ubiquitinates outer
mitochondrial membrane proteins to trigger selective autophagy. This review
covers the normal functions that PINK1 and Parkin play within cells, their
molecular mechanisms of action, and the pathophysiological consequences of their 
loss.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25611507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Front Genet. 2015 Jan 7;5:459. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2014.00459. eCollection 2014.

Circles within circles: commentary on Ghosal et al. (2013) "Circ2Traits: a
comprehensive database for circular RNA potentially associated with disease and
traits".

Hancock JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge Cambridge, UK.

PMCID: PMC4285795
PMID: 25610452  [PubMed]


764. Front Neurosci. 2015 Jan 6;8:437. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00437. eCollection
2014.

Chronic pramipexole treatment increases tolerance for sucrose in normal and
ventral tegmental lesioned rats.

Dardou D(1), Chassain C(2), Durif F(3).

Author information: 
(1)EA7280 NPSY-Sydo, Université d'Auvergne Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(2)IRM-Hopital Gabriel Montpied Clermont-Ferrand, France. (3)EA7280 NPSY-Sydo,
Université d'Auvergne Clermont-Ferrand, France ; Service de Neurologie A, Hopital
Gabriel Montpied Clermont-Ferrand, France.

The loss of dopamine neurons observed in Parkinson's disease (PD) elicits severe 
motor control deficits which are reduced by the use of dopamine agonists.
However, recent works have indicated that D3-preferential agonists such as
pramipexole can induce impulse control disorders (ICDs) such as food craving or
compulsive eating. In the present study, we performed an intermittent daily
feeding experiment to assess the effect of chronic treatment by pramipexole and
VTA bilateral lesion on tolerance for sucrose solution. The impact of such
chronic treatment on spontaneous locomotion and spatial memory was also examined.
Changes in sucrose tolerance could indicate the potential development of a change
in food compulsion or addiction related to the action of pramipexole. Neither the
bilateral lesion of the VTA nor chronic treatment with pramipexole altered the
spontaneous locomotion or spatial memory in rats. Rats without pramipexole
treatment quickly developed a stable intake of sucrose solution in the 12 h
access phase. On the contrary, when under daily pramipexole treatment, rats
developed a stronger and ongoing escalation of their sucrose solution intakes. In
addition, we noted that the change in sucrose consumption was sustained by an
increase of the expression of the Dopamine D3 receptor in the core and the shell 
regions of the nucleus accumbens. The present results may suggest that long-term 
stimulation of the Dopamine D3 receptor in animals induces a strong increase in
sucrose consumption, indicating an effect of this receptor on certain
pathological aspects of food eating.

PMCID: PMC4285017
PMID: 25610366  [PubMed]


765. Neurology. 2015 Feb 17;84(7):654-8. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001265. Epub 2015 
Jan 21.

Olfactory dysfunction predicts early transition to a Lewy body disease in
idiopathic RBD.

Mahlknecht P(1), Iranzo A(2), Högl B(1), Frauscher B(1), Müller C(1), Santamaría 
J(1), Tolosa E(1), Serradell M(1), Mitterling T(1), Gschliesser V(1), Goebel
G(1), Brugger F(1), Scherfler C(1), Poewe W(1), Seppi K(2); Sleep Innsbruck
Barcelona Group.

Collaborators: Frauscher B, Gschliesser V, Högl B, Iranzo A, Mahlknecht P,
Mitterling T, Müller C, Poewe W, Santamaría J, Scherfler C, Seppi K, Serradell M,
Tolosa E.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (P.M., B.H., B.F., C.M., T.M., V.G., F.B.,
C.S., W.P., K.S.), Medical University Innsbruck; Department of Medical
Statistics, Informatics and Health Economics (G.G.), Medical University
Innsbruck, Austria; Neurology Service (A.I., J.S., E.T., M.S.), Hospital Clinic, 
Barcelona; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Enfermedades
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED) (A.I., J.S., E.T., M.S.); and IDIBAPS (A.I., J.S., 
E.T., M.S.), Barcelona, Spain. (2)From the Department of Neurology (P.M., B.H.,
B.F., C.M., T.M., V.G., F.B., C.S., W.P., K.S.), Medical University Innsbruck;
Department of Medical Statistics, Informatics and Health Economics (G.G.),
Medical University Innsbruck, Austria; Neurology Service (A.I., J.S., E.T.,
M.S.), Hospital Clinic, Barcelona; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED) (A.I., J.S., E.T., M.S.); and IDIBAPS 
(A.I., J.S., E.T., M.S.), Barcelona, Spain. klaus.seppi@uki.at
airanzo@clinic.ub.es.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to determine the predictive value of 
olfactory dysfunction for the early development of a synuclein-mediated
neurodegenerative disease in subjects with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder
(iRBD) over an observational period of 5 years.
METHODS: Thirty-four patients with polysomnography-confirmed iRBD underwent
olfactory testing using the entire Sniffin' Sticks test assessing odor
identification, odor discrimination, and olfactory threshold. Patients with iRBD 
were prospectively followed up over a period of 4.9 ± 0.3 years (mean ± SD). The 
diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases was based on current clinical diagnostic 
criteria.
RESULTS: After 2.4 ± 1.7 years (mean ± SD), 9 patients (26.5%) with iRBD
developed a Lewy body disease (6 Parkinson disease and 3 dementia with Lewy
bodies). The entire Sniffin' Sticks test and the identification subtest had the
same overall diagnostic accuracy of 82.4% (95% confidence interval: 66.1%-92.0%) 
in predicting conversion. The relative risk for a Lewy body disease in the lowest
tertile of olfactory function was 7.3 (95% confidence interval: 1.8-29.6)
compared with the top 2 tertiles.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of olfactory function, particularly odor identification, 
may help to predict the development of a Lewy body disease in patients with iRBD 
over a relatively short time period and thus to identify patients suitable for
future disease modification trials.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25609758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Cell Sci. 2015 Mar 1;128(5):964-78. doi: 10.1242/jcs.161000. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Unconventional PINK1 localization to the outer membrane of depolarized
mitochondria drives Parkin recruitment.

Okatsu K(1), Kimura M(2), Oka T(3), Tanaka K(4), Matsuda N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Protein Metabolism Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan. (2)Protein Metabolism Project, Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan
Laboratory of Protein Metabolism, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan. (3)Department of Life Science,
College of Science, Rikkyo University, Nishi-Ikebukuro, Tokyo 171-8501, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Protein Metabolism, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan tanaka-kj@igakuken.or.jp
matsuda-nr@igakuken.or.jp. (5)Protein Metabolism Project, Tokyo Metropolitan
Institute of Medical Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan
tanaka-kj@igakuken.or.jp matsuda-nr@igakuken.or.jp.

Dysfunction of PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), a Ser/Thr kinase with an
N-terminal mitochondrial-targeting sequence (MTS), causes familial recessive
parkinsonism. Reduction of the mitochondrial membrane potential limits
MTS-mediated matrix import and promotes PINK1 accumulation on the outer
mitochondrial membrane (OMM) of depolarized mitochondria. PINK1 then undergoes
autophosphorylation and phosphorylates ubiquitin and Parkin, a cytosolic
ubiquitin ligase, for clearance of damaged mitochondria. The molecular basis for 
PINK1 localization on the OMM of depolarized mitochondria rather than release to 
the cytosol is poorly understood. Here, we disentangle the PINK1 localization
mechanism using deletion mutants and a newly established constitutively active
PINK1 mutant. Disruption of the MTS through N-terminal insertion of aspartic acid
residues results in OMM localization of PINK1 in energized mitochondria.
Unexpectedly, the MTS and putative transmembrane domain (TMD) are dispensable for
OMM localization, whereas mitochondrial translocase Tom40 (also known as TOMM40) 
and an alternative mitochondrial localization signal that resides between the MTS
and TMD are required. PINK1 utilizes a mitochondrial localization mechanism that 
is distinct from that of conventional MTS proteins and that presumably functions 
in conjunction with the Tom complex in OMM localization when the conventional
N-terminal MTS is inhibited.

© 2015. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

PMCID: PMC4342580
PMID: 25609704  [PubMed - in process]


767. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 21;35(3):1211-6. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3277-14.2015.

Patterned, but not tonic, optogenetic stimulation in motor thalamus improves
reaching in acute drug-induced Parkinsonian rats.

Seeger-Armbruster S(1), Bosch-Bouju C(2), Little ST(2), Smither RA(1), Hughes
SM(3), Hyland BI(1), Parr-Brownlie LC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Physiology. (2)Anatomy, and. (3)Biochemistry, Otago School of
Medical Science, Brain Health Research Centre, University of Otago, Dunedin 9054,
New Zealand. (4)Anatomy, and louise.parr-brownlie@otago.ac.nz.

High-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS) in motor thalamus (Mthal) ameliorates
tremor but not akinesia in Parkinson's disease. The aim of this study was to
investigate whether there are effective methods of Mthal stimulation to treat
akinesia. Glutamatergic Mthal neurons, transduced with channelrhodopsin-2 by
injection of lentiviral vector (Lenti.CaMKII.hChR2(H134R).mCherry), were
selectively stimulated with blue light (473 nm) via a chronically implanted
fiber-optic probe. Rats performed a reach-to-grasp task in either acute
drug-induced parkinsonian akinesia (0.03-0.07 mg/kg haloperidol, s.c.) or control
(vehicle injection) conditions, and the number of reaches was recorded for 5 min 
before, during, and after stimulation. We compared the effect of DBS using
complex physiological patterns previously recorded in the Mthal of a control rat 
during reaching or exploring behavior, with tonic DBS delivering the same number 
of stimuli per second (rate-control 6.2 or 1.8 Hz, respectively) and with
stimulation patterns commonly used in other brain regions to treat neurological
conditions (tonic 130 Hz, theta burst (TBS), and tonic 15 Hz rate-control for
TBS). Control rats typically executed >150 reaches per 5 min, which was
unaffected by any of the stimulation patterns. Acute parkinsonian rats executed
<20 reaches, displaying marked akinesia, which was significantly improved by
stimulating with the physiological reaching pattern or TBS (both p < 0.05),
whereas the exploring and all tonic patterns failed to improve reaching. Data
indicate that the Mthal may be an effective site to treat akinesia, but the
pattern of stimulation is critical for improving reaching in parkinsonian rats.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/351211-06$15.00/0.

PMID: 25609635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 21;35(3):1149-59. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3490-14.2015.

Desynchronization of fast-spiking interneurons reduces β-band oscillations and
imbalance in firing in the dopamine-depleted striatum.

Damodaran S(1), Cressman JR(1), Jedrzejewski-Szmek Z(1), Blackwell KT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University, Fairfax,
Virginia 22030. (2)Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University,
Fairfax, Virginia 22030 kblackw1@gmu.edu.

Oscillations in the β-band (8-30 Hz) that emerge in the output nuclei of the
basal ganglia during Parkinson's disease, along with an imbalanced activation of 
the direct and indirect pathways, have been linked to the hypokinetic motor
output associated with the disease. Although dopamine depletion causes a change
in cellular and network properties in the striatum, it is unclear whether
abnormal activity measured in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars
reticulata is caused by abnormal striatal activity. Here we use a computational
network model of medium spiny neurons (MSNs)-fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs),
based on data from several mammalian species, and find that robust β-band
oscillations and imbalanced firing emerge from implementation of changes to
cellular and circuit properties caused by dopamine depletion. These changes
include a reduction in connections between MSNs, a doubling of FSI inhibition to 
D2 MSNs, an increase in D2 MSN dendritic excitability, and a reduction in D2 MSN 
somatic excitability. The model reveals that the reduced decorrelation between
MSNs attributable to weakened lateral inhibition enables the strong influence of 
synchronous FSIs on MSN firing and oscillations. Weakened lateral inhibition also
produces an increased sensitivity of MSN output to cortical correlation, a
condition relevant to the parkinsonian striatum. The oscillations of FSIs, in
turn, are strongly modulated by fast electrical transmission between FSIs through
gap junctions. These results suggest that pharmaceuticals that desynchronize FSI 
activity may provide a novel treatment for the enhanced β-band oscillations,
imbalanced firing, and motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/351149-12$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4300321 [Available on 2015-07-21]
PMID: 25609629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 21;35(3):890-905. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0089-14.2015.

A53T human α-synuclein overexpression in transgenic mice induces pervasive
mitochondria macroautophagy defects preceding dopamine neuron degeneration.

Chen L(1), Xie Z(2), Turkson S(2), Zhuang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637
lichen@bsd.uchicago.edu xzhuang@bsd.uchicago.edu. (2)Department of Neurobiology, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637.

In vitro evidence suggests that the inefficient removal of damaged mitochondria
by macroautophagy contributes to Parkinson's disease (PD). Using a
tissue-specific gene amplification strategy, we generated a transgenic mouse line
with human α-synuclein A53T overexpression specifically in dopamine (DA) neurons.
Transgenic mice showed profound early-onset mitochondria abnormalities,
characterized by macroautophagy marker-positive cytoplasmic inclusions containing
mainly mitochondrial remnants, which preceded the degeneration of DA neurons.
Genetic deletion of either parkin or PINK1 in these transgenic mice significantly
worsened mitochondrial pathologies, including drastically enlarged inclusions and
loss of total mitochondria contents. These data suggest that mitochondria are the
main targets of α-synuclein and their defective autophagic clearance plays a
significant role during pathogenesis. Moreover, endogenous PINK1 or parkin is
indispensable for the proper autophagic removal of damaged mitochondria. Our data
for the first time establish an essential link between mitochondria
macroautophagy impairments and DA neuron degeneration in an in vivo model based
on known PD genetics. The model, its well-defined pathologies, and the
demonstration of a main pathogenesis pathway in the present study have set the
stage and direction of emphasis for future studies.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/350890-16$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4300331 [Available on 2015-07-21]
PMID: 25609609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Viral Hepat. 2015 Jan 21. doi: 10.1111/jvh.12392. [Epub ahead of print]

Hepatitis C virus infection: a risk factor for Parkinson's disease.

Wu WY(1), Kang KH, Chen SL, Chiu SY, Yen AM, Fann JC, Su CW, Liu HC, Lee CZ, Fu
WM, Chen HH, Liou HH.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology and Preventive medicine, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Recent studies found that hepatitis C virus (HCV) may invade the central nervous 
system, and both HCV and Parkinson's disease (PD) have in common the
overexpression of inflammatory biomarkers. We analysed data from a
community-based integrated screening programme based on a total of 62 276
subjects. We used logistic regression models to investigate association between
HCV infection and PD. The neurotoxicity of HCV was evaluated in the midbrain
neuron-glia coculture system in rats. The cytokine/chemokine array was performed 
to measure the differences of amounts of cytokines released from midbrain in the 
presence and absence of HCV. The crude odds ratios (ORs) for having PD were 0.62 
[95% confidence interval (CI), 0.48-0.81] and 1.91 (95% CI, 1.48-2.47) for
hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HCV. After controlling for potential confounders, the
association between HCV and PD remained statistically significant (adjusted
OR = 1.39; 95% CI, 1.07-1.80), but not significantly different between HBV and
PD. The HCV induced 60% dopaminergic neuron death in the midbrain neuron-glia
coculture system in rats, similar to that of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+) 
) but not caused by HBV. This link was further supported by the finding that HCV 
infection may release the inflammatory cytokines, which may play a role in the
pathogenesis of PD. In conclusion, our study demonstrated a significantly
positive epidemiological association between HCV infection and PD and
corroborated the dopaminergic toxicity of HCV similar to that of MPP(+) .

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25608223  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


771. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb;30(2):150-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26099. Epub 2015 Jan 21.

Management of impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease: Controversies and
future approaches.

Samuel M(1), Rodriguez-Oroz M, Antonini A, Brotchie JM, Ray Chaudhuri K, Brown
RG, Galpern WR, Nirenberg MJ, Okun MS, Lang AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Parkinson Foundation International Centre of
Excellence, King's College Hospital, King's Health Partners, London, UK.

Impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease are a group of impulsive
behaviors most often associated with dopaminergic treatment. Presently, there is 
a lack of high quality evidence available to guide their management. This
manuscript reviews current management strategies, before concentrating on the
concept of dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome and its implications for the
management of impulse control disorders. Further, we focus on controversies,
including the role of more recently available anti-parkinsonian drugs, and
potential future approaches involving routes of drug delivery, nonpharmacological
treatments (such as cognitive behavioral therapy and deep brain stimulation), and
other as yet experimental strategies.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25607799  [PubMed - in process]


772. Autophagy. 2015;11(1):187-9. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2014.996021.

PINK1- and PARK2-mediated local mitophagy in distal neuronal axons.

Ashrafi G(1), Schwarz TL.

Author information: 
(1)a FM Kirby Neurobiology Center; Children's Hospital Boston ; Boston , MA USA.

Mutations in the PINK1 and PARK2/PARKIN genes are associated with hereditary
early onset Parkinson disease (PD), and in cell lines the corresponding gene
products play a critical role in mitophagic clearance of damaged mitochondria. In
neurons, however, where the extraordinary cellular shapes pose particular
challenges for maintaining healthy mitochondria, the pathways of mitophagy are
less well understood. Both the location at which mitophagy occurs and the
involvement of PINK1 and PARK2 have been controversial. Here we review our recent
study where we found that selective damage to a subset of axonal mitochondria
causes them to be engulfed within autophagosomes and cleared locally within the
axon without the need for transport back to the soma. We also found this process 
to be completely dependent on neuronal PINK1 and PARK2.

PMID: 25607607  [PubMed - in process]


773. Transplantation. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of Heavy Drinking Donors in Heart Transplantation is Not Associated With
Worse Mortality.

Taghavi S(1), Jayarajan SN, Komaroff E, Shiose A, Schwartz D, Hamad E, Alvarez R,
Wheatley G, Guy TS, Toyoda Y.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Surgery, Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
PA. 2 Department of Public Health, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA. 3 Section
of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
PA. 4 Section of Cardiology, Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
PA. 5 Address correspondence to: Yoshiya Toyoda, Temple University Hospital 3401 
N Broad Street, Parkinson Pavilion Third Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19140.

BACKGROUND: Although orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT) remains the preferred
treatment for end-stage heart failure, there continues to be a critical shortage 
of organ donors. The goal of this study is to examine outcomes after (OHT) using 
heavy drinking donors (HDDs) in a large, national database.
METHODS: The United Network for Organ Sharing database was examined for all
primary, adult OHT carried out from 2005 to 2012.
RESULTS: There were 14,928 total OHT performed during the study period with 2,274
(15.2%) using HDD. Recipients of HDD were older (53.4 vs. 51.9 years, P<0.001),
more likely men (80.7 vs. 74.4%, P<0.001), less likely sex mismatched (21.5 vs.
27.5%, P<0.001), more likely race mismatched (57.4 vs. 52.4%, P<0.001), and had
less total HLA mismatches (4.55 vs. 4.65, P<0.001). The HDD were older (37.0 vs. 
30.5 years, P<0.001), more likely men (82.2 vs. 69.9%, P<0.001), and more likely 
to have heavy cigarette use (38.1 vs. 13.2%, P<0.001). Length of stay was not
different (20.3 vs. 19.7 days, P=0.02). On multivariate analysis, use of HDD was 
not associated with mortality at 30 days (hazards ratio [HR], 1.12; 95%
confidence interval [95% CI], 0.90-1.39; P=0.30), 1 year (HR, 0.96; 95% CI,
0.83-1.11; P=0.56), and at 5 years (HR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.91-1.13; P=0.79).
Variables associated with mortality at 5 years included increasing donor age,
prolonged ischemic time, worsening recipient creatinine, recipient black race,
sex mismatch, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or mechanical ventilation
as a bridge to transplantation.
CONCLUSION: Heart transplantation can be performed using carefully selected HDDs 
with good outcomes.

PMID: 25606795  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


774. Meta Gene. 2014 Oct 17;2:761-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mgene.2014.09.010. eCollection
2014.

The reduction of vascular disease risk mutations contributes to longevity in the 
Chinese population.

He YH(1), Lu X(1), Bi MX(2), Yang LQ(1), Xu LY(3), Kong QP(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of 
Zoology, The Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650223, China ; KIZ/CUHK Joint 
Laboratory of Bioresources and Molecular Research in Common Diseases, Kunming
650223, China. (2)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, Public Health
College, Harbin Medical University, 157 Baojian Road, Nangang District, Harbin
150081, China. (3)Dujiangyan Longevity Research Centre, Dujiangyan 611830, China.

AIM: Genetic factors play important roles in determining human lifespan. Although
some "longevity genes" have been identified to be implicated in human longevity, 
many disease-associated variants were also observed in the long-lived
individuals. The oldest old and their offspring usually have a lower prevalence
of age-related diseases, which is likely attributed to a reduction or an absence 
of disease risk variants.
METHODS AND RESULTS: To test this hypothesis, 23 disease risk single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs), identified by previous genome-wide association studies
(GWASs), were selected and genotyped in 1074 samples consisting of 574 longevity 
subjects (over 90 years old) and 500 younger controls. Our results revealed that 
5 SNPs (rs2144300, rs1864163, rs2200733, rs1967017, and rs7193343) displayed
significantly lower allelic frequencies and odds ratios (ORs) in the longevity
group than that in the control group. The frequencies of homozygous mutation
genotypes and corresponding ORs of the rs1864163, rs2200733, rs127430, rs1967017,
and rs12413409 were lower in the longevity subjects. Interestingly, most of the
abovementioned SNPs convey susceptibility to cardiovascular disease (CVD), which 
is the leading cause of deaths in old adults but shows a much lower incidence in 
the longevity individuals and their offspring.
CONCLUSION: Taking into account the observation that the longevity subjects and
their offspring have lower rate of cardiovascular mortality, it is then most
plausible that the lack of disease risk variants, especially the CVD, is a
genetic contributor to longevity in the Chinese population.

PMCID: PMC4287879
PMID: 25606459  [PubMed]


775. J Thromb Thrombolysis. 2015 Jan;39(1):43-9. doi: 10.1007/s11239-013-1012-y.

Hemostatic potential of latex proteases from Tabernaemontana divaricata (L.) R.
Br. ex. Roem. and Schult. and Artocarpus altilis (Parkinson ex. F.A. Zorn)
Forsberg.

Singh MK(1), Usha R, Hithayshree KR, Bindhu OS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center for Post Graduate Studies, Jain University,
9th Main, 18th Cross, Jayanagar 3rd Block, Bangalore, Karnataka, India.

Pharmacological properties exhibited by latex of plants are due to various
biologically active compounds including several proteolytic enzymes. Present
study evaluates hemostatic potential of Tabernaemontana divaricata and Artocarpus
altilis from Apocynaceae and Moraceae families respectively. The latex of these
plants were initially subjected to dialysis and crude extracts were estimated for
proteolytic activity using casein as the substrate. Mean caseinolytic activity
for 100 μg of latex protein was found to be 56.16 ± 0.57 and 45 ± 0.3 U/h for T. 
divaricata and A. altilis respectively. Caseinolytic activity by both the plant
extracts was higher than standard proteases, papain and trypsin. However the
difference was significant (p < 0.05) with papain alone. Crude enzymes (CE) from 
both plants exhibited coagulant activity on human platelet poor plasma by
recalcification time. A significant reduction in clotting time was exhibited by
T. divaricata compared to A. altilis (p < 0.05). These results were further
substantiated with fibrinogen agarose plate assay. Crude enzyme of both plants
also hydrolyzed blood clot. Mean % of thrombolysis by T. divaricata was
80.75 ± 1.2 and that of A. altilis was 70.24 ± 1.52. Inhibition studies confirmed
cysteine protease nature of CE. Comparative analysis revealed T. divaricata to be
the best among the two for its hemostatic potential. This study scientifically
validates the use of latex from these plants in the management of fresh cuts or
wounds.

PMID: 25603786  [PubMed - in process]


776. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):292-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.033. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

Head injury, potential interaction with genes, and risk for Parkinson's disease.

Gao J(1), Liu R(2), Zhao E(2), Huang X(3), Nalls MA(4), Singleton AB(4), Chen
H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. Electronic address: gaojianjunxf@gmail.com.
(2)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, Pennsylvania State
University-Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA. (4)Molecular
Genetics Section, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging,
Bethesda, MD, USA. (5)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. Electronic address:
chenh2@niehs.nih.gov.

INTRODUCTION: To evaluate the association between head injury and Parkinson's
disease (PD), focusing on the timing of head injury, and to explore potential
interactions between head injury and genetic factors in PD etiology.
METHODS: The analysis included 507 PD cases and 1330 controls, all non-Hispanic
Whites. Head injury was retrospectively asked, and genotyping was performed
mainly as part of a previous GWAS.
RESULTS: We found a positive association between head injury and PD risk.
Compared with no previous head injury, the odds ratio (OR) was 1.39 (95%
confidence interval [CI]: 1.00, 1.94) for one and 2.33 (95% CI: 1.25, 4.35) for
two or more head injuries (P for trend = 0.0016). We further found that the
higher risk was largely attributed to head injuries before age 30. Compared with 
no previous head injury, the OR was 2.04 (95% CI: 1.33, 3.14) for head injury
that occurred before age 18, 1.39 (95% CI: 0.81, 2.36) for head injury between
ages 18-<30, and 1.04 (95% CI: 0.58, 1.87) for head injury that occurred at age
30 or older (P for trend = 0.001). Exploratory interaction analyses showed a
significant interaction between head injury and a SNP at the RBMS3 locus
(rs10510622, uncorrected P = 0.0001). No interaction was found with GWAS tag SNPs
at or near the MAPT, SNCA, LRRK2, and HLA loci.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that head injury early in life may be an important
risk factor for PD. The potential interaction with RBMS3 needs confirmation.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25603768  [PubMed - in process]


777. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):254-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.020. Epub 2014 Dec 31.

A 12-year population-based study of freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease.

Forsaa EB(1), Larsen JP(2), Wentzel-Larsen T(3), Alves G(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Norwegian Centre for Movement Disorders, Stavanger University Hospital,
P.O. Box 8100, N-4068 Stavanger, Norway; Department of Neurology, Stavanger
University Hospital, P.O. Box 8100, N-4068 Stavanger, Norway. Electronic address:
elin.forsaa@sus.no. (2)The Norwegian Centre for Movement Disorders, Stavanger
University Hospital, P.O. Box 8100, N-4068 Stavanger, Norway. (3)Center for
Clinical Research, Haukeland University Hospital, P.O. Box 1400, N-5021 Bergen,
Norway. (4)The Norwegian Centre for Movement Disorders, Stavanger University
Hospital, P.O. Box 8100, N-4068 Stavanger, Norway; Department of Neurology,
Stavanger University Hospital, P.O. Box 8100, N-4068 Stavanger, Norway.

INTRODUCTION: Freezing of gait (FOG) is a potentially disabling motor problem in 
Parkinson's disease (PD) with uncertain etiology. Longitudinal studies of FOG in 
PD are scarce. We determined the prevalence, incidence, and associated clinical
risk factors and concomitants of FOG during prospective long-term follow-up of a 
population-based PD cohort.
METHODS: A community-based prevalent cohort of 232 PD patients was followed
prospectively over 12 years. Reassessments were conducted at 4 and 8 years, and
then annually. FOG, as well as severity of parkinsonism, motor complications, and
psychotic symptoms were assessed by the Unified PD Rating Scale, and cognitive
impairment by the Mini-Mental State Examination. Generalized estimating equations
were applied to investigate baseline risk factors and concomitants of FOG over
time.
RESULTS: The point prevalence of FOG at baseline was 27% (95% confidence interval
(95%-CI) 22-33%). By study end, 63% (95%-CI 56-69%) of patients had developed
FOG. The incidence rate of FOG was 124.2 (95%-CI 101.5-152.1) per 1000
person-years. Motor fluctuations (odds ratio (OR) 3.45; p = 0.036) and higher
levodopa dose (OR 1.30/100 mg, p = 0.009) at baseline were independent risk
factors of incident FOG. Prevalent FOG over time was additionally associated with
features thought to reflect extrastrial, non-dopaminergic pathologies, including 
PIGD (postural instability/gait difficulty, OR 6.30/10 points, p < 0.001) and
psychosis (OR 1.85; p = 0.016).
CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate that FOG affects the majority of patients 
in the general PD population and provide support to the hypothesis that
alterations in both basal ganglia and extrastriatal brain areas are involved in
the pathogenesis of FOG in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25603767  [PubMed - in process]


778. Nano Lett. 2015 Feb 11;15(2):1336-42. doi: 10.1021/nl504566t. Epub 2015 Jan 28.

Modulation doping of GaAs/AlGaAs core-shell nanowires with effective defect
passivation and high electron mobility.

Boland JL(1), Conesa-Boj S, Parkinson P, Tütüncüoglu G, Matteini F, Rüffer D,
Casadei A, Amaduzzi F, Jabeen F, Davies CL, Joyce HJ, Herz LM, Fontcuberta i
Morral A, Johnston MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oxford , Clarendon Laboratory, Parks
Road, Oxford, OX1 3PU, United Kingdom.

Reliable doping is required to realize many devices based on semiconductor
nanowires. Group III-V nanowires show great promise as elements of high-speed
optoelectronic devices, but for such applications it is important that the
electron mobility is not compromised by the inclusion of dopants. Here we show
that GaAs nanowires can be n-type doped with negligible loss of electron
mobility. Molecular beam epitaxy was used to fabricate modulation-doped GaAs
nanowires with Al0.33Ga0.67As shells that contained a layer of Si dopants. We
identify the presence of the doped layer from a high-angle annular dark field
scanning electron microscopy cross-section image. The doping density, carrier
mobility, and charge carrier lifetimes of these n-type nanowires and nominally
undoped reference samples were determined using the noncontact method of optical 
pump terahertz probe spectroscopy. An n-type extrinsic carrier concentration of
1.10 ± 0.06 × 10(16) cm(-3) was extracted, demonstrating the effectiveness of
modulation doping in GaAs nanowires. The room-temperature electron mobility was
also found to be high at 2200 ± 300 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1) and importantly minimal
degradation was observed compared with undoped reference nanowires at similar
electron densities. In addition, modulation doping significantly enhanced the
room-temperature photoconductivity and photoluminescence lifetimes to 3.9 ± 0.3
and 2.4 ± 0.1 ns respectively, revealing that modulation doping can passivate
interfacial trap states.

PMID: 25602841  [PubMed - in process]


779. Radiology. 2015 May;275(2):430-7. doi: 10.1148/radiol.14140601. Epub 2015 Jan 15.

Parkinson Disease: Diffusion MR Imaging to Detect Nigrostriatal Pathway Loss in a
Marmoset Model Treated with 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Hikishima K(1), Ando K, Yano R, Kawai K, Komaki Y, Inoue T, Itoh T, Yamada M,
Momoshima S, Okano HJ, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Physiology (K.H., R.Y., Y.K., H.O.) and Diagnostic
Radiology (S.M.), Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan (K.H., K.A., R.Y., K.K., Y.K., T. Inoue, T. Itoh); Faculty of
Radiological Technology, Fujita Health University School of Health Sciences,
Toyoake, Japan (M.Y.); Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan (H.J.O.); and Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Japan (H.O.).

Purpose To investigate the use of diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI) to detect
denervation of the nigrostriatal pathway in a nonhuman primate model of Parkinson
disease (PD) after treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Materials and Methods This study was approved by the institutional
committee for animal experiments. DTI was performed in marmosets (n = 6) by using
a 7-T magnetic resonance (MR) imager before and 10 weeks after administration of 
MPTP. Fixed brains of a normal marmoset and a marmoset model of PD (n = 1) were
analyzed by using microscopic tractography. Tyrosine-hydroxylase staining of
dopaminergic neurons and three-dimensional histologic analysis also were
performed in normal marmosets (n = 2) and a PD marmoset model (n = 2) to validate
the course of the nigrostriatal pathway revealed at tractography. Statistical
analysis of voxel-based and post hoc region-of-interest analyses of DTI maps was 
performed by using a paired t test. Results At voxel-based analysis of DTI before
and after treatment, MPTP-treated marmoset brains showed significantly increased 
axial and radial diffusivity in the bilateral nigrostriatal pathway (P < .05,
false discovery rate corrected). The largest area of significantly increased
diffusivity was an area of axial diffusivity in the right hemispere (177 mm(3))
that corresponded to the location of dopaminergic neurodegeneration at histologic
evaluation. Region-of-interest analysis revealed a 27% increase in axial
diffusivity in the right hemisphere (1.198 mm(2)/sec ± 0.111 to 1.522 mm(2)/sec ±
0.118; P = .002). Three-dimensional histologic analysis with tyrosine-hydroxylase
staining showed the course of the nigrostriatal pathway and degeneration in the
PD marmoset model as the absence of a tyrosine-hydroxylase stained region.
Microscopic tractography showed that the connection of the substantia nigra to
the striatum followed the same course as the nigrostriatal pathway and fewer
fiber tracts in the PD marmoset model. Conclusion DTI and microscopic
tractography showed the loss of fiber structures of the nigrostriatal pathway in 
the marmoset model of PD. The results of this study provide a potential basis for
the use of DTI in the clinical diagnosis of PD. (©) RSNA, 2015 Online
supplemental material is available for this article.

PMID: 25602507  [PubMed - in process]


780. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):337-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.001. Epub 2015 Jan 10.

A novel homozygous PLA2G6 mutation causes dystonia-parkinsonism.

Malaguti MC(1), Melzi V(2), Di Giacopo R(3), Monfrini E(2), Di Biase E(2), Franco
G(2), Borellini L(2), Trezzi I(2), Monzio Compagnoni G(2), Fortis P(4), Feraco
P(5), Orrico D(1), Cucurachi L(1), Donner D(6), Rizzuti M(2), Ronchi D(2), Bonato
S(2), Bresolin N(2), Corti S(2), Comi GP(2), Di Fonzo A(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Department, Santa Chiara Hospital, Trento, Italy. (2)IRCCS
Foundation Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Dino Ferrari Center,
Neuroscience Section, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation,
University of Milan, Milan, Italy. (3)Centro di Riabilitazione Neurocognitiva
(CeRiN), Center for Mind/Brain Sciences (CIMEC) University of Trento, Trento,
Italy. (4)Centro di Riabilitazione Neurocognitiva (CeRiN), Center for Mind/Brain 
Sciences (CIMEC), University of Trento, Trento, Italy. (5)SS Neuroradiology,
Department of Radiology, Santa Chiara Hospital, Trento, Italy. (6)Nuclear
Medicine Department, Santa Chiara Hospital, Trento, Italy. (7)IRCCS Foundation
Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Dino Ferrari Center, Neuroscience
Section, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, University of Milan, 
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: alessio.difonzo@policlinico.mi.it.

PMID: 25601130  [PubMed - in process]


781. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Feb 20;457(4):561-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.01.024. Epub 2015 Jan 17.

Dissociation of glucocerebrosidase dimer in solution by its co-factor, saposin C.

Gruschus JM(1), Jiang Z(2), Yap TL(2), Hill SA(2), Grishaev A(3), Piszczek G(4), 
Sidransky E(5), Lee JC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, Biochemistry and Biophysics Center,
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda MD 20892, United States. Electronic address: gruschuj@helix.nih.gov.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, Biochemistry and Biophysics Center,
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda MD 20892, United States. (3)Laboratory of Chemical Physics, National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. (4)Biophysics Core, Biochemistry and
Biophysics Center, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. (5)Section on Molecular
Neurogenetics, Medical Genetics Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. (6)Laboratory
of Molecular Biophysics, Biochemistry and Biophysics Center, National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda MD 20892,
United States. Electronic address: leej4@mail.nih.gov.

Mutations in the gene for the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GCase) cause
Gaucher disease and are the most common risk factor for Parkinson disease (PD).
Analytical ultracentrifugation of 8 μM GCase shows equilibrium between monomer
and dimer forms. However, in the presence of its co-factor saposin C (Sap C),
only monomer GCase is seen. Isothermal calorimetry confirms that Sap C associates
with GCase in solution in a 1:1 complex (Kd = 2.1 ± 1.1 μM). Saturation
cross-transfer NMR determined that the region of Sap C contacting GCase includes 
residues 63-66 and 74-76, which is distinct from the region known to enhance
GCase activity. Because α-synuclein (α-syn), a protein closely associated with PD
etiology, competes with Sap C for GCase binding, its interaction with GCase was
also measured by ultracentrifugation and saturation cross-transfer. Unlike Sap C,
binding of α-syn to GCase does not affect multimerization. However, adding α-syn 
reduces saturation cross-transfer from Sap C to GCase, confirming displacement.
To explore where Sap C might disrupt multimeric GCase, GCase x-ray structures
were analyzed using the program PISA, which predicted stable dimer and tetramer
forms. For the most frequently predicted multimer interface, the GCase active
sites are partially buried, suggesting that Sap C might disrupt the multimer by
binding near the active site.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMCID: PMC4361889 [Available on 2016-02-20]
PMID: 25600808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Europace. 2015 Jan 18. pii: euu324. [Epub ahead of print]

Invasive electrophysiological evaluation and ablation in patients with
asymptomatic ventricular pre-excitation persistent at exercise stress test.

De Ponti R(1), Marazzi R(2), Doni LA(2), Cremona V(2), Marazzato J(2),
Salerno-Uriarte JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Heart and Vessels, Ospedale di Circolo e Fondazione Macchi,
University of Insubria, Viale Borri, 57, Varese IT-21100, Italy
rdeponti@alice.it. (2)Department of Heart and Vessels, Ospedale di Circolo e
Fondazione Macchi, University of Insubria, Viale Borri, 57, Varese IT-21100,
Italy.

AIMS: In patients with asymptomatic ventricular pre-excitation (VPE) persistent
at exercise stress test, this study evaluates the proportion of cases with
adverse conduction properties of the atrioventricular accessory pathway (AP) at
invasive electrophysiological study and the long-term follow-up after they
received treatment according to pre-determined criteria.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Over 10 years, asymptomatic patients with VPE persistent at 
exercise stress test referred for invasive electrophysiological evaluation
including isoproterenol (IPN) infusion were included. Ablation was planned if
they had at least one of the following criteria: (i) shortest pre-excited R-R
interval (SPERRI) ≤250 ms and/or (ii) inducible atrioventricular re-entrant
tachycardia (AVRT). Cryoablation was electively used in para-hisian and
mid-septal APs. Patients non-eligible for ablation received no therapy.
Sixty-three patients (45 males; mean age 26 ± 14 years) underwent
electrophysiological evaluation: 7 had fasciculo-ventricular fibres and were
excluded, whereas 56 had 58 APs. Thirty-one patients (55%) were eligible and
underwent successful ablation: 87% had at least the SPERRI ≤ 250 ms and 61% had
at least inducible AVRT. In 15 cases (48%) the ablation criteria were met only
during IPN infusion. During follow-up (73 ± 33 months), one patient was
successfully retreated for resumption of VPE in the ablation group, whereas no
event was observed in the group of patients who received no treatment.
CONCLUSION: In this subset of patients with asymptomatic VPE, invasive
electrophysiological evaluation shows fast antegrade conduction over the AP
and/or inducible AVRT in about half of the cases. Patients who received no
therapy because of a benign electrophysiological profile had an event-free
follow-up.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. ©
The Author 2015. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25600768  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


783. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):671-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26137. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Resting-state frontostriatal functional connectivity in Parkinson's
disease-related apathy.

Baggio HC(1), Segura B, Garrido-Millan JL, Marti MJ, Compta Y, Valldeoriola F,
Tolosa E, Junque C.

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Psiquiatria i Psicobiologia Clínica, Universitat de Barcelona. 
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

One of the most common neuropsychiatric symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) is
apathy, affecting between 23% and 70% of patients and thought to be related to
frontostriatal dopamine deficits. In the current study, we assessed functional
resting-state frontostriatal connectivity and structural changes associated with 
the presence of apathy in a large sample of PD subjects and healthy controls,
while controlling for the presence of comorbid depression and cognitive decline. 
Thirty-one healthy controls (HC) and 62 age-, sex-, and education-matched PD
patients underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Apathy symptoms were evaluated with the Apathy Scale (AS). The 11 Beck Depression
Inventory-II items that measure dysphoric mood symptoms as well as relevant
neuropsychological scores were used as nuisance factors in connectivity analyses.
Voxel-wise analyses of functional connectivity between frontal lobes (limbic,
executive, rostral motor, and caudal motor regions), striata (limbic, executive, 
sensorimotor regions), and thalami were performed. Subcortical volumetry/shape
analysis and fronto-subcortical voxel-based morphometry were performed to assess 
associated structural changes. Twenty-five PD patients were classified as
apathetic (AS > 13). Apathetic PD patients showed functional connectivity
reductions compared with HC and with non-apathetic patients, mainly in left-sided
circuits, and predominantly involving limbic striatal and frontal territories.
Similarly, severity of apathy negatively correlated with connectivity in these
circuits. No significant effects were found in structural analyses. Our results
indicate that the presence of apathy in PD is associated with functional
connectivity reductions in frontostriatal circuits, predominating in the left
hemisphere and mainly involving its limbic components. © 2015 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25600482  [PubMed - in process]


784. Mov Disord. 2015 Jan 20. doi: 10.1002/mds.26134. [Epub ahead of print]

Antisaccades and executive dysfunction in early drug-naive Parkinson's disease:
The discovery study.

Antoniades CA(1), Demeyere N, Kennard C, Humphreys GW, Hu MT.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital,
University of Oxford, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is well recognized in Parkinson's disease (PD), 
but when it begins to develop is unclear. The aim of this study was to identify
early signs of cognitive impairment along with abnormalities in saccadic behavior
in newly diagnosed unmedicated PD patients.
METHODS: Nineteen drug-naive PD patients and 20 controls were examined using a
battery of tests, including an antisaccade task, phonemic and semantic verbal
fluencies, and a switching and rule finding task.
RESULTS: With simple tasks, no differences were found between the two groups.
However, cognitive performance of the two groups diverged with more complex
tasks, occurring independently of PD-related motor impairment. Patients exhibited
higher antisaccadic error rates and switch costs in the task switching test, and 
performed significantly worse in the rule finding task.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain cognitive domains and saccadic parameters are already
significantly impoverished in newly diagnosed Parkinson's patients, even before
the initiation of medication. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25600361  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


785. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2015 Feb;13(2):183-92. doi:
10.1586/14779072.2015.1000308.

Controversies in arrhythmias and arrhythmic syndromes of active children and
young adults.

Sreeram N(1), Menzel C, Udink ten Cate FE.

Author information: 
(1)Heart Center, University Hospital of Cologne, Kerpener Strasse 62, 50937
Cologne, Germany.

Important advances in the diagnosis and therapy of various arrhythmic disorders
have been made in the last two decades. These, in turn, have necessitated a
re-examination of current practice guidelines, with a view to deciding on optimal
management of young patients with suspected or proven arrhythmia syndromes and in
assessing the risk of adverse arrhythmic events during sport participation. There
has also been a concomitant emphasis on identifying individuals at risk by
nationwide screening programs using the ECG and excluding them from competitive
sport. This review identifies some of these issues, looks at the data critically 
and offers some suggestions for current care and future research.

PMID: 25600345  [PubMed - in process]


786. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):538-44. doi: 10.1002/mds.26132. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Familial aggregation of Parkinson's disease in the Faroe Islands.

Petersen MS(1), Bech S, Nosova E, Aasly J, Farrer MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational Medicine and Public Health, the Faroese Hospital
System, Tórshavn, Faroe Islands.

The Faroe Islands are a geographic population isolated in the North Atlantic with
a high prevalence of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although environmental risk
factors are well described, the familial aggregation of PD on the Islands has yet
to be explored. Complete ascertainment of all patients with PD was performed,
including 217 cases and 251 control subjects. All patients were neurologically
assessed and diagnosed using UK Brain Bank criteria and Hohn and Yahr staging.
Comprehensive genealogical and detailed cartographic analyses were performed.
Relative risk and risk ratios were calculated with respect to the general
population. Patients with PD in the Faroes have a higher age at symptom onset and
diagnosis than for neighboring countries. Clinically, patients are similar;
however, they are more likely to have affected relatives than randomly selected
control subjects, matched by sex and age. Disease is most prevalent within two
geographic regions. Overall, the relative risk for PD was 2.3 (95% confidence
interval [CI], 1.2-4.3; P = 0.008) for siblings and 1.4 (95% CI, 1.01-1.99,
P = 0.04) for first cousins. The etiology and excess prevalence of PD on the
Faroes is complicated. Regional and familial clustering, and subsequent
segregation analysis, suggests the disease best fits a genetic etiology with
limited support for an environmental contribution. Pedigree-based analysis of PD 
on the Faroe Islands which has few founders and a relatively homogeneous
background may elaborate on these possibilities and their joint contribution. ©
2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25600277  [PubMed - in process]


787. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2015 Apr;26(4):412-6. doi: 10.1111/jce.12623. Epub
2015 Mar 5.

Success Rates in Pediatric WPW Ablation Are Improved with 3-Dimensional Mapping
Systems Compared with Fluoroscopy Alone: A Multicenter Study.

Ceresnak SR(1), Dubin AM, Kim JJ, Valdes SO, Fishberger SB, Shetty I, Zimmerman
F, Tanel RE, Epstein MR, Motonaga KS, Capone CA, Nappo L, Gates GJ, Pass RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, Stanford
University, Palo Alto, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Three-dimensional mapping (3-D) systems are frequently used for
ablation of supraventricular tachycardia. Prior studies have demonstrated
radiation dosage reduction with 3-D, but there are no data on whether 3-D
improves the efficacy of ablation of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW). We
sought to determine if 3-D improves the success rate for ablation of WPW in
children.
METHODS: Multicenter retrospective study including patients ≤21 years of age with
WPW undergoing ablation from 2008 to 2012. Success rates using the 2 techniques
(3-D vs. fluoroscopy alone [FLUORO]) were compared.
RESULTS: Six hundred and fifty-one cases were included (58% male, mean age 13 ± 4
years, 366 [56%] 3-D). Baseline characteristics including gender, weight,
accessory pathway (AP) location, number of APs, and repeat ablation attempts were
similar between the 2 groups (3-D and FLUORO) The 3-D group was slightly younger 
(12.7 ± 4.0 vs. 13.3 ± 4.0 years; P = 0.04) and less likely to undergo ablation
utilizing cryoenergy (38 [10%] vs. 56 [20%]; P < 0.01). The 3-D group had a
higher acute success rate of ablation (355 [97%] vs. 260 [91%]; P < 0.01). No
differences were seen in recurrence (16 [5%] vs. 26 [9%]; P = 0.09) or
complication rates (1 [0.3%] vs. 1 [0.4%]; P = 0.86) between the groups. On
multivariable analysis, 3-D was shown to significantly improve success at
ablation with an odds ratio of 3.1 (95% CI 1.44-6.72; P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Use of 3-D significantly improved success rates for ablation of WPW 
in children. The increase in acute success associated with 3-D suggests it is an 
important adjunct for catheter ablation of WPW in children.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25600208  [PubMed - in process]


788. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb;30(2):245-52. doi: 10.1002/mds.26112. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Depressive symptoms in Parkinson's disease are related to decreased hippocampus
and amygdala volume.

van Mierlo TJ(1), Chung C, Foncke EM, Berendse HW, van den Heuvel OA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, VU University Medical Center (VUmc), Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

Depression and anxiety are common in Parkinson's disease (PD), and are among the 
non-motor symptoms that interfere with quality of life dramatically. Motor,
cognitive, and affective features overlap in PD, hampering diagnosis. To shed
more light on the contribution of structural brain changes to the presence of
PD-related depressive symptoms, we conducted a Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM)
study. We hypothesized that depressive symptoms in PD are related to regional
gray matter (GM) volume loss within the limbic circuit. We analyzed the
T1-weigthed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images of 67 PD patients with a mean
disease duration of 2.95 (±3.39) years. Scores on the Beck Depression Inventory
(BDI) and GM probability maps were analyzed by regression analysis to study the
association between GM volume and severity of depressive symptoms. Results are
reported at both the uncorrected and the family-wise error (FWE) corrected level 
for multiple comparisons. The BDI scores correlated negatively with bilateral
hippocampus and right amygdala volume and positively with the volume of the
anterior cingulate cortex. These findings confirm the hypothesized involvement of
the limbic circuit in PD-related depressive symptoms. We speculate that
non-dopaminergic changes are essential in the pathophysiology of depressive
symptoms in PD, because our findings suggest the involvement of extra-striatal
brain regions.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25600157  [PubMed - in process]


789. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Mar;36(3):1543-58. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.11.015. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Longitudinal follow-up and characterization of a robust rat model for Parkinson's
disease based on overexpression of alpha-synuclein with adeno-associated viral
vectors.

Van der Perren A(1), Toelen J(2), Casteels C(3), Macchi F(1), Van Rompuy AS(1),
Sarre S(4), Casadei N(5), Nuber S(6), Himmelreich U(7), Osorio Garcia MI(7),
Michotte Y(4), D'Hooge R(8), Bormans G(9), Van Laere K(3), Gijsbers R(10), Van
den Haute C(11), Debyser Z(10), Baekelandt V(12).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurobiology and Gene Therapy, Department of Neurosciences, KU 
Leuven, Flanders, Belgium. (2)Laboratory for Molecular Virology and Gene Therapy,
Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Flanders,
Belgium. (3)Division of Nuclear Medicine, Leuven University Hospital and KU
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Drug
Analysis, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussel, Belgium. (5)Institute of Medical
Genetics and Applied Genomics, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(6)Institute of Medical Genetics and Applied Genomics, University of Tübingen,
Tübingen, Germany; Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, 
San Diego, USA. (7)Biomedical MRI Unit, Department of Imaging and Pathology, KU
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (8)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, Department of
Psychology, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (9)Laboratory for Radiopharmacy,
Department of Pharmaceutical en Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Belgium.
(10)Laboratory for Molecular Virology and Gene Therapy, Department of
Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium; Leuven
Viral Vector Core, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (11)Laboratory for Neurobiology
and Gene Therapy, Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium;
Leuven Viral Vector Core, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (12)Laboratory for
Neurobiology and Gene Therapy, Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, 
Belgium; Leuven Viral Vector Core, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic
address: Veerle.Baekelandt@med.kuleuven.be.

Testing of new therapeutic strategies for Parkinson's disease (PD) is currently
hampered by the lack of relevant and reproducible animal models. Here, we
developed a robust rat model for PD by injection of adeno-associated viral
vectors (rAAV2/7) encoding α-synuclein into the substantia nigra, resulting in
reproducible nigrostriatal pathology and behavioral deficits in a 4-week time
period. Progressive dopaminergic dysfunction was corroborated by histopathologic 
and biochemical analysis, motor behavior testing and in vivo microdialysis.
L-DOPA treatment was found to reverse the behavioral phenotype. Non-invasive
positron emission tomography imaging and magnetic resonance spectroscopy allowed 
longitudinal monitoring of neurodegeneration. In addition, insoluble α-synuclein 
aggregates were formed in this model. This α-synuclein rat model shows improved
face and predictive validity, and therefore offers the possibility to reliably
test novel therapeutics. Furthermore, it will be of great value for further
research into the molecular pathogenesis of PD and the importance of α-synuclein 
aggregation in the disease process.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25599874  [PubMed - in process]


790. Altern Ther Health Med. 2015 Jan-Feb;21(1):8-14.

Feldenkrais method-based exercise improves quality of life in individuals with
Parkinson's disease: a controlled, randomized clinical trial.

Teixeira-Machado L, Araújo FM, Cunha FA, Menezes M, Menezes T, Melo DeSantana J.

CONTEXT: Longevity results in changes to patterns of health, with an increased
prevalence of chronic diseases. Parkinson's disease (PD) is described as a
progressive neurodegenerative disease related to age that influences quality of
life (QoL) and leads to depression.
OBJECTIVE: The study intended to assess changes in QoL and depression in older
adults with PD through use of Feldenkrais method-based exercise.
DESIGN: The study was a controlled, blinded, and randomized clinical trial.
SETTING: The study occurred at the University Hospital of the Federal University 
of Sergipe in Aracaju, Sergipe, Brazil.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants were 30 patients, aged between 50 and 70 y, with
idiopathic PD, who signed an informed consent form and were randomly assigned to 
2 groups: treatment and control.
INTERVENTION: The treatment group underwent 50 sessions of an exercise program
based on the Feldenkrais method. The control group received educational lectures 
during this period. The treatment group's 50 sessions, given 2 ×/wk on alternate 
days and lasting 60 min, were conducted in an appropriate room at the hospital.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Two surveys, the Parkinson's Disease Quality of Life (PDQL)
questionnaire and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), were administered before
and after the sessions for both groups.
RESULTS: After the exercises based on the Feldenkrais method, the treated group
showed improvement in QoL scores (P = .004) as well as a reduction in the level
of depression (P = .05) compared with the control group.
CONCLUSION: The findings in the current study indicate that it is likely that the
practice of a program based on the Feldenkrais method can contribute greatly to
the QoL of patients with PD, suggesting the importance of interventions that
promote wellness for this population.

PMID: 25599428  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Circ Res. 2015 Jan 30;116(3):398-406. doi: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.116.304731. Epub
2014 Nov 6.

Canonical wnt signaling regulates atrioventricular junction programming and
electrophysiological properties.

Gillers BS(1), Chiplunkar A(1), Aly H(1), Valenta T(1), Basler K(1), Christoffels
VM(1), Efimov IR(1), Boukens BJ(1), Rentschler S(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular Division (B.S.G., A.C., H.A., 
S.R.), and Department of Developmental Biology (B.S.G., A.C., H.A., S.R.),
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO; Institute of Molecular
Life Sciences, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland (T.V., K.B.); Department
of Anatomy, Embryology, and Physiology, Heart Failure Research Center, Academic
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands (V.M.C.); and
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University, St. Louis, MO
(I.R.E., B.J.B., S.R.). (2)From the Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular
Division (B.S.G., A.C., H.A., S.R.), and Department of Developmental Biology
(B.S.G., A.C., H.A., S.R.), Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO; Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland (T.V., K.B.); Department of Anatomy, Embryology, and Physiology,
Heart Failure Research Center, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands (V.M.C.); and Department of Biomedical Engineering,
Washington University, St. Louis, MO (I.R.E., B.J.B., S.R.).
Stacey.rentschler@wustl.edu.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2015 Jan 30;116(3):386-8.

RATIONALE: Proper patterning of the atrioventricular canal (AVC) is essential for
delay of electrical impulses between atria and ventricles, and defects in AVC
maturation can result in congenital heart disease.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the role of canonical Wnt signaling in the myocardium
during AVC development.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a novel allele of β-catenin that preserves
β-catenin's cell adhesive functions but disrupts canonical Wnt signaling,
allowing us to probe the effects of Wnt loss of function independently. We show
that the loss of canonical Wnt signaling in the myocardium results in tricuspid
atresia with hypoplastic right ventricle associated with the loss of AVC
myocardium. In contrast, ectopic activation of Wnt signaling was sufficient to
induce formation of ectopic AV junction-like tissue as assessed by morphology,
gene expression, and electrophysiological criteria. Aberrant AVC development can 
lead to ventricular pre-excitation, a characteristic feature of
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. We demonstrate that postnatal activation of Notch
signaling downregulates canonical Wnt targets within the AV junction.
Stabilization of β-catenin protein levels can rescue Notch-mediated ventricular
pre-excitation and dysregulated ion channel gene expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that myocardial canonical Wnt signaling is an
important regulator of AVC maturation and electric programming upstream of Tbx3. 
Our data further suggest that ventricular pre-excitation may require both
morphological patterning defects, as well as myocardial lineage reprogramming, to
allow robust conduction across accessory pathway tissue.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4312529 [Available on 2016-01-30]
PMID: 25599332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Neurosurgery. 2015 Mar;11 Suppl 2:80-8; discussion 88. doi:
10.1227/NEU.0000000000000613.

Spatial topographies of unilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation
efficacy for ipsilateral, contralateral, midline, and total Parkinson disease
motor symptoms.

Shenai MB(1), Romeo A, Walker HC, Guthrie S, Watts RL, Guthrie BL.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Neuroscience, Inova Health System, Falls Church, Virginia,
‡Department of Neurosurgery, and §Department of Neurology, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.

BACKGROUND: Subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation is a successful
intervention for medically refractory Parkinson disease, although its efficacy
depends on optimal electrode placement. Even though the predominant effect is
observed contralaterally, modest improvements in ipsilateral and midline symptoms
are also observed.
OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the role of contact location of unilateral deep brain
stimulation on contralateral, ipsilateral, and axial subscores of Parkinson
disease motor symptoms.
METHODS: Eighty-six patients receiving first deep brain stimulation STN electrode
placements were identified, yielding 73 patients with 3-month follow-up. Total
preoperative and postoperative Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale Part III
scores were obtained and divided into contralateral, ipsilateral, and midline
subscores. Contact location was determined on immediate postoperative magnetic
resonance imaging. A 3-dimensional ordinary "kriging" algorithm generated spatial
interpolations for total, ipsilateral, contralateral, and midline symptom
categories. Interpolative reconstructions were performed in the axial planes (z =
-0.5, -1.0, -1.5, -3.5, -4.5, -6.0) and a sagittal plane (x = 12.0).
Interpolation error and significance were quantified by use of a cross-validation
technique and quantile-quantile analysis.
RESULTS: There was an overall reduction in Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale
Part III symptoms: total = 37.0 ± 24.11% (P < .05), ipsilateral = 15.9 ± 51.8%,
contralateral = 56.2 ± 26.8% (P < .05), and midline = 26.5 ± 34.7%. Kriging
interpolation was performed and cross-validated with quantile-quantile analysis
with high correlation (R2 > 0.92) and demonstrated regions of efficacy for each
symptom category. Contralateral symptoms demonstrated broad regions of efficacy
across the peri-STN area. The ipsilateral and midline regions of efficacy were
constrained and located along the dorsal STN and caudal zona incerta.
CONCLUSION: We provide evidence for a unique functional topographic window in
which contralateral, ipsilateral, and midline structures may achieve the best
efficacy. Although there are overlapping regions, laterality demonstrates
distinct topographies. Surgical optimization should target the intersection of
optimal regions for these symptom categories.

PMID: 25599197  [PubMed - in process]


793. N Am J Med Sci. 2014 Dec;6(12):633-7. doi: 10.4103/1947-2714.147980.

Saliva α-Synuclein and A High Extinction Coefficient Protein: A Novel Approach in
Assessment Biomarkers of Parkinson's Disease.

Al-Nimer MS(1), Mshatat SF(2), Abdulla HI(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Al-Mustansiriya University,
Baghdad, Iraq. (2)Department of Oral Medicine, College of Dentistry,
Al-Mustansiriya University, Baghdad, Iraq.

BACKGROUND: The pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the
appearance of intracytoplasmic inclusions known as Lewy bodies in which its
principal component is α-synuclein.
AIM: This study aimed to determine salivary α-synuclein and the extinction
coefficient of the saliva protein as biomarkers of PD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This observational study was done in Department of
Pharmacology, College of Medicine in cooperation with Department of Oral
Medicine, College of Dentistry at Al-Mustansiriya University in Baghdad, Iraq
from September 2013 to March 2014. A total number of 20 PD patients and 20
healthy subjects were enrolled in the study. Unstimulated saliva obtained from
each participant obtained for determination of salivary flow rate, saliva protein
and α-synuclein using enzyme linked immune sorbent assay (ELISA) technique.
RESULTS: Total saliva protein and uncontaminated protein with nucleic acids are
significantly higher in PD compared with healthy subjects. The mean extinction
coefficient of that protein is 27.25 M.cm(-1) which significantly (P < 0.001)
less than corresponding value of healthy subjects (33.48 M.cm(-1) ). Saliva
α-synuclein level is significantly less in PD (65 ± 52.2 pg/ml) than healthy
subjects (314.01 ± 435.9 pg/ml).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that saliva α-synuclein serves as a biomarker for PD if 
its level compared with healthy subjects, and a specific protein with extinction 
coefficient 27.25 M.cm-1 is detected in saliva of Parkinson's patients.

PMCID: PMC4290052
PMID: 25599051  [PubMed]


794. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 Apr;36(4):1554-66. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22723. Epub 2015 Jan 17.

Reduced neural connectivity but increased task-related activity during working
memory in de novo Parkinson patients.

Trujillo JP(1), Gerrits NJ, Veltman DJ, Berendse HW, van der Werf YD, van den
Heuvel OA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, VU University Medical Center (VUmc), 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Psychiatry, VUmc, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, An Institute of the Royal
Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) often suffer from impairments
in executive functions, such as working memory deficits. It is widely held that
dopamine depletion in the striatum contributes to these impairments through
decreased activity and connectivity between task-related brain networks. We
investigated this hypothesis by studying task-related network activity and
connectivity within a sample of de novo patients with PD, versus healthy
controls, during a visuospatial working memory task.
METHODS: Sixteen de novo PD patients and 35 matched healthy controls performed a 
visuospatial n-back task while we measured their behavioral performance and
neural activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We constructed
regions-of-interest in the bilateral inferior parietal cortex (IPC), bilateral
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), and bilateral caudate nucleus to
investigate group differences in task-related activity. We studied network
connectivity by assessing the functional connectivity of the bilateral DLPFC and 
by assessing effective connectivity within the frontoparietal and the
frontostriatal networks.
RESULTS: PD patients, compared with controls, showed trend-significantly
decreased task accuracy, significantly increased task-related activity in the
left DLPFC and a trend-significant increase in activity of the right DLPFC, left 
caudate nucleus, and left IPC. Furthermore, we found reduced functional
connectivity of the DLPFC with other task-related regions, such as the inferior
and superior frontal gyri, in the PD group, and group differences in effective
connectivity within the frontoparietal network.
INTERPRETATION: These findings suggest that the increase in working
memory-related brain activity in PD patients is compensatory to maintain
behavioral performance in the presence of network deficits. Hum Brain Mapp
36:1554-1566, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25598397  [PubMed - in process]


795. Eur J Neurol. 2015 Apr;22(4):603-9. doi: 10.1111/ene.12646. Epub 2015 Jan 18.

Impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease: don't set your mind at rest by 
self-assessments.

Baumann-Vogel H(1), Valko PO, Eisele G, Baumann CR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Impulse control disorders (ICDs) and related conditions
in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients are frequent, disabling and sometimes
devastating neuropsychiatric behaviors. Current knowledge on the prevalence of
ICDs in PD is mainly based on assessments with questionnaires or patient
interviews. This study was designed to evaluate the reliability of self-assessed 
ICDs and related conditions in PD by exploring the agreement between
self-assessment of ICDs and related conditions in PD patients on the one hand and
the estimation of their caregivers on the other hand.
METHODS: After a short validation study of a novel ICD screening questionnaire, a
cross-sectional study in 150 PD patients was performed. All patients filled out
the self-assessment version of a screening questionnaire for ICDs, and caregivers
completed an adapted version (n = 64).
RESULTS: When comparing self-assessments of PD patients and ratings by their
caregivers, significant differences with regard to the estimated prevalence of
hypersexuality (55% vs. 17%), dopamine dysregulation syndrome (31% vs. 3%) and
punding (22% vs. 9%) were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients underestimate the presence and severity of some ICDs and
related conditions, which shows how important assessments with caregivers are.
After all, ICDs are probably much more frequent in PD than previously reported.

© 2015 EAN.

PMID: 25598147  [PubMed - in process]


796. Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol. 2015 Jan 18. doi: 10.1111/nan.12221. [Epub ahead of
print]

Purine metabolism gene deregulation in Parkinson's disease.

Garcia-Esparcia P(1), Hernández-Ortega K, Ansoleaga B, Carmona M, Ferrer I.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, Bellvitge University Hospital-Bellvitge
Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona,
Spain; Center for Networked Biomedical Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases
(CIBERNED), Institute Carlos III, Ministry of Health, Barcelona, Spain.

AIMS: To explore alterations in the expression of genes encoding enzymes involved
in purine metabolism in Parkinson's disease (PD) brains as purines are the core
of the DNA, RNA, nucleosides and nucleotides which participate in a wide variety 
of crucial metabolic pathways.
METHODS: Analysis of mRNA using real-time quantitative PCR of 22 genes involved
in purine metabolism in the substantia nigra, putamen and cerebral cortex area 8 
in PD at different stages of disease progression, and localization of selected
purine metabolism-related enzymes with immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Reduced expression of adenylate kinase 2 (AKA2), AK3, AK4, adenine
phosphoribosyltransferase, ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1
(ENTPD1), ENTPD3, nonmetastatic cells 3, nucleoside-diphosphatese kinase 3
(NME1), NME7 and purine nucleoside phosphorylase 1 (PNP1) mRNA in the substantia 
nigra at stages 3-6; up-regulation of ADA mRNA in the frontal cortex area 8 at
stages 3-4 and of AK1, AK5, NME4, NME5, NME6, 5'-nucleotidase (NT5E), PNP1 and
prune homolog Drosophila at stages 5-6. There is no modification in the
expression of these genes in the putamen at stages 3-5.
CONCLUSIONS: Gene down-regulation in the substantia nigra may be interpreted as a
consequence of dopaminergic cell death as ENTPD3, NME1, NME7, AK1 and PNP1 are
mainly expressed in neurons. Yet ENTPD1 and NT5E, also down-regulated in the
substantia nigra, are expressed in astrocytes, probably pericytes and microglia, 
respectively. In contrast, gene up-regulation in the frontal cortex area 8 at
advanced stages of the disease suggests a primary manifestation or a compensation
of altered purine metabolism in this region.

© 2015 British Neuropathological Society.

PMID: 25597950  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


797. Ergonomics. 2015 Jan 19:1-13. [Epub ahead of print]

An updated estimate of the body dimensions of US children.

Pagano BT(1), Parkinson MB, Reed MP.

Author information: 
(1)a Mechanical Engineering , Penn State University , University Park , PA , USA.

Anthropometric data from children are important for product design and the
promulgation of safety standards. The last major detailed study of child
anthropometry in the USA was conducted more than 30 years ago. Subsequent
demographic changes and the increased prevalence of overweight and obesity render
those data increasingly obsolete. A new, large-scale anthropometric survey is
needed. As an interim step, a new anthropometric synthesis technique was used to 
create a virtual population of modern children, each described by 84
anthropometric measures. A subset of these data was validated against limited
modern data. Comparisons with data from the 1970s showed significant changes in
measures of width and circumference of the torso, arms and legs. Measures of
length and measurements of the head, face, hands and feet exhibited little
change. The new virtual population provides guidance for a comprehensive child
anthropometry survey and could improve safety and accommodation in product
design.

PMID: 25597931  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


798. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2015 Apr;51:205-22. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.01.008. 
Epub 2015 Jan 15.

A compensatory role for declarative memory in neurodevelopmental disorders.

Ullman MT(1), Pullman MY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Brain and Language Laboratory, Department of Neuroscience, Georgetown
University, Box 571464, Washington, DC 20057-1464, United States. Electronic
address: michael@georgetown.edu. (2)Brain and Language Laboratory, Department of 
Neuroscience, Georgetown University, Box 571464, Washington, DC 20057-1464,
United States.

Most research on neurodevelopmental disorders has focused on their abnormalities.
However, what remains intact may also be important. Increasing evidence suggests 
that declarative memory, a critical learning and memory system in the brain,
remains largely functional in a number of neurodevelopmental disorders. Because
declarative memory remains functional in these disorders, and because it can
learn and retain numerous types of information, functions, and tasks, this system
should be able to play compensatory roles for multiple types of impairments
across the disorders. Here, we examine this hypothesis for specific language
impairment, dyslexia, autism spectrum disorder, Tourette syndrome, and
obsessive-compulsive disorder. We lay out specific predictions for the hypothesis
and review existing behavioral, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging evidence. 
Overall, the evidence suggests that declarative memory indeed plays compensatory 
roles for a range of impairments across all five disorders. Finally, we discuss
diagnostic, therapeutic and other implications.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4359651 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25597655  [PubMed - in process]


799. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):271-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.027. Epub 2015 Jan 5.

CSF tau and tau/Aβ42 predict cognitive decline in Parkinson's disease.

Liu C(1), Cholerton B(2), Shi M(3), Ginghina C(4), Cain KC(5), Auinger P(6);
Parkinson Study Group DATATOP Investigators, Zhang J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle,
WA, USA; Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, The First Affiliated Hospital,
Xiamen University, Xiamen, China. Electronic address: liuchangqin@126.com.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA; Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical
Center, VA Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: 
bchol@uw.edu. (3)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: mshi70@uw.edu. (4)Department of
Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
Electronic address: ginghina@uw.edu. (5)Department of Biostatistics, University
of Washington School of Public Health, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address:
cain@uw.edu. (6)Department of Neurology, Center for Human Experimental
Therapeutics, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry,
Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address: peggy.auinger@chet.rochester.edu.
(7)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle,
WA, USA. Electronic address: zhangj@uw.edu.

INTRODUCTION: A substantial proportion of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) 
have concomitant cognitive dysfunction. Identification of biomarker profiles that
predict which PD patients have a greater likelihood for progression of cognitive 
symptoms is pressingly needed for future treatment and prevention approaches.
METHODS: Subjects were drawn from the Deprenyl and Tocopherol Antioxidative
Therapy of Parkinsonism (DATATOP) study, a large clinical trial that enrolled
initially untreated PD patients. For the current study, Phase One encompassed
trial baseline until just prior to levodopa administration (n = 403), and Phase
Two spanned the initiation of levodopa treatment until the end of cognitive
follow-up (n = 305). Correlations and linear mixed models were performed to
determine cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between baseline amyloid 
β1-42 (Aβ42), total tau (t-tau), and phosphorylated tau (p-tau) in cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) and measures of memory and executive function. Analyses also
considered APOE genotype and tremor- vs. rigidity-dominant phenotype.
RESULTS: No association was found between baseline CSF biomarkers and cognitive
test performance during Phase One. However, once levodopa treatment was
initiated, higher p-tau and p-tau/Aβ42 predicted subsequent decline on cognitive 
tasks involving both memory and executive functions. The interactions between
biomarkers and cognition decline did not appear to be influenced by levodopa
dosage, APOE genotype or motor phenotype.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study has, for the first time, demonstrated the possible
involvement of tau species, whose gene (MAPT) has been consistently linked to the
risk of PD by genome-wide association studies, in the progression of cognitive
symptoms in PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596881  [PubMed - in process]


800. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):259-65. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.025. Epub 2015 Jan 5.

Finger dexterity deficits in Parkinson's disease and somatosensory cortical
dysfunction.

Foki T(1), Pirker W(2), Geißler A(3), Haubenberger D(4), Hilbert M(5), Hoellinger
I(6), Wurnig M(7), Rath J(8), Lehrner J(9), Matt E(10), Fischmeister F(11),
Trattnig S(12), Auff E(13), Beisteiner R(14).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel
18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR Center of Excellence, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
thomas.foki@meduniwien.ac.at. (2)Department of Neurology, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
walter.pirker@meduniwien.ac.at. (3)Department of Neurology, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR Center of
Excellence, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090,
Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: alexander.geissler@meduniwien.ac.at.
(4)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel
18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
dietrich.haubenberger@meduniwien.ac.at. (5)Department of Neurology, Medical
University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR
Center of Excellence, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20,
A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: hilbert.fmri@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel
18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR Center of Excellence, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
ilse.hoellinger@gmail.com. (7)Department of Neurology, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR Center of
Excellence, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090,
Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: mwurnig@gmail.com. (8)Department of
Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090,
Vienna, Austria; MR Center of Excellence, Medical University of Vienna,
Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
jakob.rath@meduniwien.ac.at. (9)Department of Neurology, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
johann.lehrner@meduniwien.ac.at. (10)Department of Neurology, Medical University 
of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR Center of
Excellence, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090,
Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: eva.matt@meduniwien.ac.at. (11)Department of
Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090,
Vienna, Austria; MR Center of Excellence, Medical University of Vienna,
Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
florian.fischmeister@meduniwien.ac.at. (12)MR Center of Excellence, Medical
University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria;
Department of Radiology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, 
A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: siegfried.trattnig@meduniwien.ac.at.
(13)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel
18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: eduard.auff@meduniwien.ac.at.
(14)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel
18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria; MR Center of Excellence, Medical University of
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
roland.beisteiner@meduniwien.ac.at.

INTRODUCTION: The patho-physiological basis for finger dexterity deficits in
Parkinson's disease (PD) is controversial. Previously, bradykinesia was regarded 
as the major mechanism. However, recent research suggested limb-kinetic apraxia
as an important component of impaired fine motor skills in PD. In contrast to
bradykinesia, limb-kinetic apraxia only marginally responds to dopaminergic
treatment. Here we investigate the novel hypothesis that the dexterity deficits
are related to an intrinsic dysfunction of primary somatosensory cortex (S1),
which is not reversible by dopaminergic medication.
METHODS: Applying a standard and approved dexterity task (coin rotation), brain
activation networks were investigated using functional magnetic resonance imaging
in PD patients both ON and OFF medication and matched healthy controls.
RESULTS: PD patients both ON and OFF medication showed impaired S1 activation
relative to controls (p < 0.05; region of interest based analysis). The impaired 
S1 activation remained unchanged by dopaminergic medication. Despite the
considerable clinical deficit, no other brain area showed impaired activation. In
contrast, structures of the basal ganglia--motor cortex loop responded to
dopaminergic medication. Behaviorally, dexterity performance both ON and OFF was 
significantly (p < 0.05) reduced relative to controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide first evidence that dexterity deficits in PD are
related to an S1 dysfunction which is insensitive to dopaminergic treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596880  [PubMed - in process]


801. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):349-50. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.034. Epub 2015 Jan 9.

The 'Cognitions' index of the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 relates to
sleep disturbance and hallucinations.

Walton CC(1), Szeto JY(1), Shine JM(1), Lewis SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Brain and Mind Research Institute,
University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. (2)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic,
Brain and Mind Research Institute, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.
Electronic address: simonl@med.usyd.edu.au.

Comment in
    Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):351-2.

Comment on
    Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2014 Nov;20(11):1236-41.

PMID: 25596879  [PubMed - in process]


802. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Mar;36(3):1577-89. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.12.018. Epub 2014 Dec 23.

Evidence of an association between sleep and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in an
animal model of Parkinson's disease.

Galati S(1), Salvadè A(2), Pace M(3), Sarasso S(4), Baracchi F(3), Bassetti
CL(5), Kaelin-Lang A(5), Städler C(2), Stanzione P(6), Möller JC(7).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Laboratory, Neurocenter of Southern Switzerland, Lugano,
Switzerland. Electronic address: salvatore.galati@eoc.ch. (2)Experimental
Laboratory, Neurocenter of Southern Switzerland, Lugano, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Berne, Berne, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences "L. Sacco", University of
Milan, Milan, Italy. (5)Experimental Laboratory, Neurocenter of Southern
Switzerland, Lugano, Switzerland; Department of Neurology, University of Berne,
Berne, Switzerland. (6)Department of Neurology, University of Rome "Tor Vergata",
Rome, Italy. (7)Experimental Laboratory, Neurocenter of Southern Switzerland,
Lugano, Switzerland; Parkinson Center, Center for Neurological Rehabilitation,
Zihlschlacht, Switzerland.

Levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) represents a major challenge for clinicians
treating patients affected by Parkinson's disease (PD). Although levodopa is the 
most effective treatment for PD, the remodeling effects induced by disease
progression and the pharmacologic treatment itself cause a narrowing of the
therapeutic window because of the development of LID. Although animal models of
PD provide strong evidence that striatal plasticity underlies the development of 
dyskinetic movements, the pathogenesis of LID is not entirely understood. In
recent years, slow homeostatic adjustment of intrinsic excitability occurring
during sleep has been considered fundamental for network stabilization by
gradually modifying plasticity thresholds. So far, how sleep affects on LID has
not been investigated. Therefore, we measured synaptic downscaling across sleep
episodes in a parkinsonian animal model showing dyskinetic movements similar to
LID. Our electrophysiological, molecular, and behavioral results are consistent
with an impaired synaptic homeostasis during sleep in animals showing dyskinesia.
Accordingly, sleep deprivation causes an anticipation and worsening of LID
supporting a link between sleep and the development of LID.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596726  [PubMed - in process]


803. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 13;290(11):6799-809. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.631556. Epub
2015 Jan 16.

Changes in neuronal dopamine homeostasis following 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium
(MPP+) exposure.

Choi SJ(1), Panhelainen A(2), Schmitz Y(1), Larsen KE(1), Kanter E(1), Wu M(1),
Sulzer D(3), Mosharov EV(4).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Neurology. (2)the Institute of Biotechnology,
University of Helsinki, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland. (3)From the
Departments of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Pharmacology, Columbia University
Medical Center, New York, New York 10032 and. (4)From the Departments of
Neurology, em706@columbia.edu.

1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), the active metabolite of the neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, selectively kills dopaminergic
neurons in vivo and in vitro via a variety of toxic mechanisms, including
mitochondrial dysfunction, generation of peroxynitrite, induction of apoptosis,
and oxidative stress due to disruption of vesicular dopamine (DA) storage. To
investigate the effects of acute MPP(+) exposure on neuronal DA homeostasis, we
measured stimulation-dependent DA release and non-exocytotic DA efflux from mouse
striatal slices and extracellular, intracellular, and cytosolic DA (DAcyt) levels
in cultured mouse ventral midbrain neurons. In acute striatal slices, MPP(+)
exposure gradually decreased stimulation-dependent DA release, followed by
massive DA efflux that was dependent on MPP(+) concentration, temperature, and DA
uptake transporter activity. Similarly, in mouse midbrain neuronal cultures,
MPP(+) depleted vesicular DA storage accompanied by an elevation of cytosolic and
extracellular DA levels. In neuronal cell bodies, increased DAcyt was not due to 
transmitter leakage from synaptic vesicles but rather to competitive
MPP(+)-dependent inhibition of monoamine oxidase activity. Accordingly, monoamine
oxidase blockers pargyline and l-deprenyl had no effect on DAcyt levels in
MPP(+)-treated cells and produced only a moderate effect on the survival of
dopaminergic neurons treated with the toxin. In contrast, depletion of
intracellular DA by blocking neurotransmitter synthesis resulted in ∼30%
reduction of MPP(+)-mediated toxicity, whereas overexpression of VMAT2 completely
rescued dopaminergic neurons. These results demonstrate the utility of
comprehensive analysis of DA metabolism using various electrochemical methods and
reveal the complexity of the effects of MPP(+) on neuronal DA homeostasis and
neurotoxicity.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4358106 [Available on 2016-03-13]
PMID: 25596531  [PubMed - in process]


804. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 6;290(10):6168-78. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.606293. Epub 2015 
Jan 16.

Conophylline protects cells in cellular models of neurodegenerative diseases by
inducing mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-independent autophagy.

Sasazawa Y(1), Sato N(1), Umezawa K(2), Simizu S(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology,
Keio University, Yokohama 223-8522, Japan and. (2)the Department of Molecular
Target Medicine Screening, Aichi Medical University School of Medicine, Aichi
480-1195, Japan. (3)From the Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Science 
and Technology, Keio University, Yokohama 223-8522, Japan and
simizu@applc.keio.ac.jp.

Macroautophagy is a cellular response that leads to the bulk, nonspecific
degradation of cytosolic components, including organelles. In recent years, it
has been recognized that autophagy is essential for prevention of
neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson disease (PD) and Huntington
disease (HD). Here, we show that conophylline (CNP), a vinca alkaloid, induces
autophagy in an mammalian target of rapamycin-independent manner. Using a
cellular model of PD, CNP suppressed protein aggregation and protected cells from
cell death caused by treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, a neurotoxin, by
inducing autophagy. Moreover, in the HD model, CNP also eliminated mutant
huntingtin aggregates. Our findings demonstrate the possible use of CNP as a
therapeutic drug for neurodegenerative disorders, including PD and HD.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4358256 [Available on 2016-03-06]
PMID: 25596530  [PubMed - in process]


805. Neurology. 2015 Feb 17;84(7):645-53. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001258. Epub 2015
Jan 16.

Overexpression of blood microRNAs 103a, 30b, and 29a in L-dopa-treated patients
with PD.

Serafin A(1), Foco L(1), Zanigni S(1), Blankenburg H(1), Picard A(1), Zanon A(1),
Giannini G(1), Pichler I(1), Facheris MF(1), Cortelli P(1), Pramstaller PP(1),
Hicks AA(1), Domingues FS(1), Schwienbacher C(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Center for Biomedicine (A.S., L.F., S.Z., H.B., A.P., A.Z., G.G.,
I.P., M.F.F., P.P.P., A.A.H., F.S.D., C.S.), European Academy Bozen/Bolzano
(EURAC), Bolzano, Italy, affiliated institute of the University of Lübeck,
Germany; Department of Neurology (S.Z., P.P.P.), General Central Hospital,
Bolzano; IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna (P.C.); Department
of Biomedical and NeuroMotor Sciences (P.C.), Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Italy; Department of Neurology (P.P.P.), University of Lübeck, Germany. 
(2)From the Center for Biomedicine (A.S., L.F., S.Z., H.B., A.P., A.Z., G.G.,
I.P., M.F.F., P.P.P., A.A.H., F.S.D., C.S.), European Academy Bozen/Bolzano
(EURAC), Bolzano, Italy, affiliated institute of the University of Lübeck,
Germany; Department of Neurology (S.Z., P.P.P.), General Central Hospital,
Bolzano; IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna (P.C.); Department
of Biomedical and NeuroMotor Sciences (P.C.), Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Italy; Department of Neurology (P.P.P.), University of Lübeck, Germany. 
christine.schwienbacher@eurac.edu.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2015 Feb 17;84(7):636-8.

OBJECTIVE: The aims of the present study were to profile the expression of
several candidate microRNAs (miRNAs) in blood from L-dopa-treated and drug-naive 
patients with Parkinson disease (PD) vs unaffected controls and to interpret the 
miRNA expression data in a biological context.
METHODS: We analyzed RNAs from peripheral blood of 36 L-dopa-treated, 10
drug-naive patients with PD and unaffected controls matched 1:1 by sex and age.
We evaluated expression by reverse transcription-quantitative real-time PCR, and 
we analyzed data using a 2-tailed paired t test. To detect miRNA targets, several
miRNA resources were combined to generate an overall score for each candidate
gene using weighted rank aggregation.
RESULTS: Significant overexpression of miR-103a-3p (p < 0.0001), miR-30b-5p (p = 
0.002), and miR-29a-3p (p = 0.005) in treated patients with PD was observed, and 
promising candidate target genes for these were revealed by an integrated in
silico analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: We revealed 3 candidate biomarkers for PD. miRNAs 30b-5p and 29a-3p 
replicated a documented deregulation in PD albeit opposite to published data,
while for miR-103a-3p, we demonstrated for the first time an overexpression in
treated patients with PD. Expression studies in patients and/or in isolated
peripheral blood mononuclear cells before and after L-dopa administration are
necessary to define the involvement of L-dopa treatment in the observed
overexpression. Our in silico analysis to prioritize targets of deregulated
miRNAs identified candidate target genes, including genes related to
neurodegeneration and PD. Despite the preliminary character of our study, the
results provide a rationale for further clarifying the role of the identified
miRNAs in the pathogenesis of PD and for validating their diagnostic potential.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25596505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Neurology. 2015 Feb 17;84(7):636-8. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001275. Epub 2015 
Jan 16.

MicroRNAs as biomarker of Parkinson disease? Small but mighty.

Marz M(1), Ferracin M(1), Klein C(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Bioinformatics (M.M.), Faculty of Mathematics and
Computer Science, Friedrich Schiller University of Jena, Germany; Department of
Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine (M.F.), and Laboratory for the
Technologies of Advanced Therapies, University of Ferrara, Italy; and Institute
of Neurogenetics (C.K.), University of Luebeck, Germany. (2)From the Department
of Bioinformatics (M.M.), Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science, Friedrich 
Schiller University of Jena, Germany; Department of Morphology, Surgery and
Experimental Medicine (M.F.), and Laboratory for the Technologies of Advanced
Therapies, University of Ferrara, Italy; and Institute of Neurogenetics (C.K.),
University of Luebeck, Germany. christine.klein@neuro.uni-luebeck.de.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2015 Feb 17;84(7):645-53.

PMID: 25596504  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2015 Mar;60:185-96. doi: 10.1016/j.biocel.2015.01.005.
Epub 2015 Jan 14.

♦Copper (II) ions modulate Angiogenin activity in human endothelial cells.

Giacomelli C(1), Trincavelli ML(2), Satriano C(3), Hansson Ö(4), La Mendola D(5),
Rizzarelli E(6), Martini C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, 56126 Pisa, Italy. (2)Department
of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, 56126 Pisa, Italy. Electronic address:
maria.trincavelli@for.unipi.it. (3)Department of Chemical Sciences, University of
Catania, Viale Andrea Doria, 6, I-95125 Catania, Italy. (4)Department of
Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, PO Box 462, SE-40530
Gothenburg, Sweden. (5)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, 56126 Pisa,
Italy. Electronic address: lamendola@farm.unipi.it. (6)Institute of Biostructures
and Bioimages, National Council of Research (CNR), Viale Andrea Doria, 6, I-95125
Catania, Italy.

Angiogenin (ANG), a member of the secreted ribonuclease family, is a potent
angiogenesis stimulator that interacts with endothelial cells inducing a wide
range of responses. Metal ions dyshomeostasis play a fundamental role in the
onset of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular copper that is also involved
in angiogenesis processes. It is known that vascular pathologies are present in
neurodegenerative diseases and Angiogenin is down-regulated in Alzheimer and
Parkinson diseases, as well as it has been found as one of the mutated genes in
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Copper (II) induces an increase of
Angiogenin binding to endothelial cells but, so far, the relationship between
copper-ANG and angiogenesis induction remain unclear. Herein, the effects of
copper (II) ions on Angiogenin activity and expression were evaluated. The
binding of copper was demonstrated to affect the intracellular localization of
the protein decreasing its nuclear translocation. Moreover, the ANG-copper (II)
system negatively affects the protein-induced angiogenesis, as well as
endothelial cells migration. Surprisingly, copper also reveals the ability to
modulate the Angiogenin transcription. These results highlight the tight
relationship between copper and Angiogenin, pointing out the biological relevance
of ANG-copper system in the regulation of endothelial cell function, and
revealing a possible new mechanism at the basis of vascular pathologies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596488  [PubMed - in process]


808. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2015 Mar;130:98-100. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2014.12.022. 
Epub 2015 Jan 6.

A comparison of montreal cognitive assessment between patients with visual
hallucinations and without visual hallucinations in Parkinson's disease.

Chung EJ(1), Seok K(2), Kim SJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Busan Paik Hospital, Inje University College of
Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea. (2)Institute of Statistical Information,
Department of Data Science, Inje University, Kimhae, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Busan Paik Hospital, Inje University College of
Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: jsk502@hanmail.net.

BACKGROUND: Visual hallucination (VH) is closely associated with cognitive
impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study is to analyze the
domain of cognitive impairment related to the VH by analyzing cognition in PD.
METHOD: Twenty-six of 58 patients had VH (PD-VH), whereas 32 patients had no
hallucinations (PD-NH); patients assigned to the PD-VH on the basis of having at 
least one VH per week for one month before participation in the study. All of the
patients were administered the Montreal Cognitive Assessment-Korean test
(MoCA-K). We analyzed the differences in cognition between PD-VH and PD-NH.
RESULTS: The Hoehn-Yahr (HY) stage and the Beck Depression Inventory version I
(BDI) scores in PD-VH were significantly different from those in PD-NH. After
adjusting for the HY stage and BDI, the language domain of the MoCA-K cognitive
domains presents a significant difference between PD-VH and PD-NH.
CONCLUSION: Sentence processing and naming as the composition of the language
domain in the MoCA-K have been associated in common with posterior cortical
dysfunction. Although our result shows that the language domain of MoCA-K is
sensitive to cognitive deficit in PD-VH patients, it needs further neuroimaging
analysis for certifying the relationship between language impairment and
posterior cortical deficit as the pathophysiology of PD-VH.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596487  [PubMed - in process]


809. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2015 Jan 13. pii: S0003-9993(15)00009-X. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2015.01.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of Exercise on Depressive Symptoms in Adults With Neurologic Disorders: A 
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Adamson BC(1), Ensari I(2), Motl RW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL. Electronic address: bcadams2@illinois.edu.
(2)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL.

OBJECTIVES: To review and quantify the effect of exercise on depression in adults
with neurologic disorders.
DATA SOURCES: CINAHL, Cochrane Register of Controlled Clinical Trials, EMBASE,
ERIC, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, PubMed, and SPORTDiscus were searched, with the last
search performed in May 2014.
STUDY SELECTION: Included were randomized controlled trials conducted in adults
with a diagnosed neurologic disorder that compared an exercise intervention group
with a control group and used depression as an outcome measure.
DATA EXTRACTION: Depression data were extracted independently by 2 authors.
Methodological quality was assessed independently by 2 authors.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Forty-three full-length articles were reviewed, and 26 trials met
our inclusion criteria. These trials represented 1324 participants with 7
different neurologic disorders: Alzheimer disease (n=4 trials), migraine (n=1),
multiple sclerosis (n=13), Parkinson disease (n=2), spinal cord injury (n=1),
stroke (n=2), and traumatic brain injury (n=3). Data measuring depression were
extracted and effect sizes were computed for 23 trials. Results from a
meta-analysis yielded an overall effect size of .28 (SE=.07; 95% confidence
interval, .15-.41; P=.00) favoring a reduction in depression outcomes after an
exercise intervention compared with the control condition. Of note, interventions
that met physical activity guidelines yielded an overall effect of .38 compared
with .19 for studies that did not meet physical activity guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS: This review provides evidence that exercise, particularly when
meeting physical activity guidelines, can improve depressive symptoms in adults
with neurologic disorders.

Copyright © 2015 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596001  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


810. PM R. 2015 Jan 13. pii: S1934-1482(15)00005-2. doi: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2014.12.009.
[Epub ahead of print]

Advanced Joystick Algorithms for Computer Access Tasks.

Dicianno BE(1), Mahajan H(2), Cooper RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Human Engineering Research Laboratories and Center of Excellence in
Wheelchairs and Related Technology, VA Pittsburgh HealthCare System, 6425 Penn
Avenue, Suite 400, Bakery Square, Pittsburgh, PA 15206; and Department of
Rehabilitation Science and Technology and Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA. Electronic address:
dicianno@pitt.edu. (2)Human Engineering Research Laboratories and Center of
Excellence in Wheelchairs and Related Technology, VA Pittsburgh HealthCare
System, Pittsburgh, PA; Department of Rehabilitation Science and Technology,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA. (3)Human Engineering Research
Laboratories and Center of Excellence in Wheelchairs and Related Technology, VA
Pittsburgh HealthCare System, Pittsburgh, PA; Department of Rehabilitation
Science and Technology, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, and
Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare 2 correction algorithms and 2 joysticks (a conventional
movement-sensing joystick and a custom-designed Isometric Joystick) in computer
access tasks.
DESIGN: Repeated-measures, within-subject.
SETTING: National Veterans Wheelchair Games.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifteen participants with various diagnoses including multiple
sclerosis, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, Wilson disease, and
Parkinson disease.
METHODS: A computer access test scenario was used to evaluate the effects of
applying proportional integral derivative (PID)-based and least means-based
algorithms to suppress unintentional cursor motions by users with upper extremity
spasticity.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Trial completion time, reaction time, and trajectory-based
measures: movement offset, movement variability, and percentage of out-of-path
motion on test tracks.
RESULTS: The quantitative outcome measures showed a high correlation with
clinical measures for spasticity and functional independence. On small test
tracks, compared to when no correction algorithms were used, both algorithms
performed equally well in suppressing unintentional cursor motions. On longer
test tracks, participants navigated most accurately while using the PID
algorithm. Participants moved the cursor more accurately using the isometric
joystick compared to the movement-sensing joystick, with only a slight increase
in the task completion times.
CONCLUSIONS: The joysticks and the advanced correction algorithms show promise
for use in wide-ranging applications as control interfaces.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25595664  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


811. Drug Metab Dispos. 2015 Apr;43(4):523-33. doi: 10.1124/dmd.114.062620. Epub 2015 
Jan 16.

A long-standing mystery solved: the formation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine is
catalyzed by CYP2C8 but prior glucuronidation of desloratadine by
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B10 is an obligatory requirement.

Kazmi F(1), Barbara JE(2), Yerino P(2), Parkinson A(2).

Author information: 
(1)XenoTech, LLC, Lenexa, Kansas (F.K., J.E.B., P.Y.); and XPD Consulting,
Shawnee, Kansas (A.P.) fkazmi@xenotechllc.com. (2)XenoTech, LLC, Lenexa, Kansas
(F.K., J.E.B., P.Y.); and XPD Consulting, Shawnee, Kansas (A.P.).

Desloratadine (Clarinex), the major active metabolite of loratadine (Claritin),
is a nonsedating long-lasting antihistamine that is widely used for the treatment
of allergic rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria. For over 20 years, it has 
remained a mystery as to which enzymes are responsible for the formation of
3-hydroxydesloratadine, the major active human metabolite, largely due to the
inability of any in vitro system tested thus far to generate this metabolite. In 
this study, we demonstrated that cryopreserved human hepatocytes (CHHs) form
3-hydroxydesloratadine and its corresponding O-glucuronide. CHHs catalyzed the
formation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine with a Km of 1.6 μM and a Vmax of 1.3
pmol/min per million cells. Chemical inhibition of cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes
in CHHs demonstrated that gemfibrozil glucuronide (CYP2C8 inhibitor) and
1-aminobenzotriazole (general P450 inhibitor) inhibited 3-hydroxydesloratadine
formation by 91% and 98%, respectively. Other inhibitors of CYP2C8 (gemfibrozil, 
montelukast, clopidogrel glucuronide, repaglinide, and cerivastatin) also caused 
extensive inhibition of 3-hydroxydesloratadine formation (73%-100%). Assessment
of desloratadine, amodiaquine, and paclitaxel metabolism by a panel of individual
CHHs demonstrated that CYP2C8 marker activity robustly correlated with
3-hydroxydesloratadine formation (r(2) of 0.70-0.90). Detailed mechanistic
studies with sonicated or saponin-treated CHHs, human liver microsomes, and S9
fractions showed that both NADPH and UDP-glucuronic acid are required for
3-hydroxydesloratadine formation, and studies with recombinant
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and P450 enzymes implicated the specific
involvement of UGT2B10 in addition to CYP2C8. Overall, our results demonstrate
for the first time that desloratadine glucuronidation by UGT2B10 followed by
CYP2C8 oxidation and a deconjugation event are responsible for the formation of
3-hydroxydesloratadine.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

PMID: 25595597  [PubMed - in process]


812. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Apr 1;282:155-64. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.01.012. Epub 2015
Jan 14.

Modeling falls in Parkinson's disease: Slow gait, freezing episodes and falls in 
rats with extensive striatal dopamine loss.

Kucinski A(1), Albin RL(2), Lustig C(3), Sarter M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology. (2)Neurology Service and GRECC, VAAAHS; Department
of Neurology. (3)Department of Psychology; Neuroscience Program, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (4)Department of Psychology; Neuroscience Program, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. Electronic address:
msarter@umich.edu.

Falls in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are a major and
levodopa-unresponsive source of morbidity. We previously described an animal
model of falls resulting from impairments in attentional-motor interactions.
Reproducing the multisystem dopaminergic-cholinergic cell loss in patients with a
history for falls, partial loss of striatal dopamine innervation interacted with 
loss of forebrain cholinergic neurons to generate falls that was hypothesized to 
reflect impairments in the attentional control of gait and balance and the
sequencing of complex movements [1]. As clinical evidence also indicates that
basal ganglia dopamine (DA) loss per se is associated with severe discoordination
and thus a greater risk for falls, here we demonstrate that relatively extensive 
striatal DA loss, in contrast to the lack of effects of smaller, dorsal striatal 
DA losses and sham lesions, increased falls and slips and caused slowing while
traversing dynamic surfaces. Falls in large DA rats were associated specifically 
with spontaneous or slip-triggered stoppages of forward movement. Collectively,
the evidence suggests that low motivation or vigor for movement in general, and
for initiating corrective movements in particular, are major sources for falls in
rats with large DA losses. Falls are a result of complex cognitive-motor
interactions, and rats with large DA losses model the impact of a propensity for 
freezing of gait when traversing dynamic surfaces.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4323874 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25595423  [PubMed - in process]


813. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):199-204. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.024. Epub 2014 Dec 4.

Reduction of gastrointestinal symptoms in Parkinson's disease after a switch from
oral therapy to rotigotine transdermal patch: a non-interventional prospective
multicenter trial.

Woitalla D(1), Kassubek J(2), Timmermann L(3), Lauterbach T(4), Berkels R(4),
Grieger F(4), Müller T(5).

Author information: 
(1)St Josef-Hospital Universitätsklinik, Bochum, Germany. Electronic address:
Dirk.Woitalla@ruhr-uni-bochum.de. (2)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm, 
Ulm, Germany. (3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Cologne, Cologne,
Germany. (4)UCB Pharma, Monheim am Rhein, Germany. (5)St. Joseph-Hospital,
Berlin-Weissensee, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms are common among patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD), due to both the disease itself and anti-PD drugs. We
hypothesized that transdermal drug administration may result in fewer GI
problems. This prospective observational study (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01159691) 
investigated effect of switching to rotigotine transdermal patch from oral
anti-PD medications in patients with PD and existing GI symptoms.
METHODS: Patients were enrolled if their physician was planning to switch them to
rotigotine because of GI symptoms experienced while receiving oral anti-PD
medications. Effectiveness assessments included a visual analog scale (VAS)
measuring intensity of GI symptoms from 0 (no disorder) to 100 mm (extremely
severe disorder), a questionnaire on the frequency and intensity of six
individual GI complaints (heartburn, bloating, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, 
diarrhea), each rated 0-12 for a sum score of 0-72, and patient satisfaction
regarding GI symptoms over approximately 6 weeks after switching.
RESULTS: Of 75 patients who received rotigotine, 58 had follow-up data available 
for final analysis. Intensity of GI complaints improved numerically on both the
VAS (47.5 ± 24.4 mm [n = 65] at baseline, 19.7 ± 23.3 mm [n = 58] after around 6 
weeks) and the sum score of GI complaints (11.2 ± 9.0 at baseline, 2.1 ± 4.4 [n =
58] after around 6 weeks). Fifty of 58 patients were "satisfied" or "very
satisfied" regarding GI symptoms over around 6 weeks following switch to the
patch.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that a switch from oral anti-PD medications to
rotigotine transdermal patch may improve existing GI symptoms among patients with
PD. Additional controlled studies are needed to confirm this finding.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25595315  [PubMed - in process]


814. Virtual Mentor. 2015 Jan 1;17(1):13-22. doi:
10.1001/virtualmentor.2015.17.01.ecas2-1501.

Applying guidelines to individual patients: deep brain stimulation for
early-stage Parkinson disease.

Esplin B(1), Machado AG(2), Ford PJ(3), Beasley K(4), Esplin B(1), Machado AG(2),
Ford PJ(3), Beasley K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Fellow in the Cleveland Fellowship in Advanced Bioethics and an adjunct
professor at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. (2)Director of
the Center for Neurological Restoration in the Neurological Institute at the
Cleveland Clinic and associate staff in the Department of Neurosciences at the
Cleveland Clinic Lerner Research Institute in Cleveland, Ohio. (3)Director of the
neuroethics program and education director for the Department of Bioethics at the
Cleveland Clinic and an associate professor in the Cleveland Clinic Lerner
College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio.
(4)Neurosurgeon and bioethicist at Boulder Neurosurgical and Spine Associates in 
Boulder, Colorado.

PMID: 25594711  [PubMed - in process]


815. Mov Disord. 2015 Jan 16. doi: 10.1002/mds.26141. [Epub ahead of print]

Lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2 Isoforms Are Differentially Affected in
Early Parkinson's Disease.

Murphy KE(1), Gysbers AM, Abbott SK, Spiro AS, Furuta A, Cooper A, Garner B,
Kabuta T, Halliday GM.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, Australia; School of Medical
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The University of New South Wales, Sydney,
Australia.

Lysosomes are the primary catabolic compartment for the degradation of
intracellular proteins through autophagy. The presence of abnormal intracellular 
α-synuclein-positive aggregates in Parkinson's disease (PD) indicates that the
degradative capacity of lysosomes is impaired in PD. Specific dysfunction of
chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) in PD is suggested by reductions in the CMA
membrane receptor, lysosomal-associated membrane protein (LAMP) 2A, although
whether LAMP2A is the only LAMP2 isoform affected by PD is unknown. Messenger RNA
(mRNA) and protein expression of all three LAMP2 isoforms was assessed in brain
extracts from regions with and without PD-related increases in α-synuclein in
autopsy samples from subjects in the early pathological stage of PD (n = 9),
compared to age- and postmortem delay-matched controls (n = 10). In the early
stages of PD, mRNA expression of all LAMP2 isoforms was not different from
controls, with LAMP2B and LAMP2C protein levels also unchanged in PD. The
selective loss of LAMP2A protein directly correlated with the increased levels of
α-synuclein and decreased levels of the CMA chaperone heat shock cognate protein 
70 in the same PD samples, as well as with the accumulation of cytosolic CMA
substrate proteins. Our data show that LAMP2 protein isoforms are differentially 
affected in the early stages of PD, with LAMP2A selectively reduced in
association with increased α-synuclein, and suggests that dysregulation of
CMA-mediated protein degradation occurs before substantial α-synuclein
aggregation in PD. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25594542  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


816. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):436-7. doi: 10.1002/mds.26138. Epub 2015 Jan 16.

COQ2 gene variants associate with cerebellar subtype of multiple system atrophy
in Chinese.

Lin CH(1), Tan EK, Yang CC, Yi Z, Wu RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Taiwan University Hospital, College of
Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

PMID: 25594503  [PubMed - in process]


817. J Neurosurg. 2015 May;122(5):1173-9. doi: 10.3171/2014.11.JNS131888. Epub 2015
Jan 16.

Accuracy of direct magnetic resonance imaging-guided placement of drug infusion
cannulae.

Chittiboina P(1), Heiss JD, Lonser RR.

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Neurology Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland; and.

An intraoperative MRI (iMRI)-compatible system has been developed for direct
placement of convection-enhanced delivery (CED) cannulae using real-time imaging.
To establish the precision and feasibility of this technology, the authors
analyzed findings in patients who underwent direct iMRI CED cannula placement.
Three consecutive patients underwent iMRI-guided placement of CED infusion
cannulae (6 cannulae) for treatment of diffuse intrinsic brainstem glioma (2
patients) or Parkinson's disease (1 patient). Convective infusion cannulae were
guided to the target using the ClearPoint iMRI-based navigation platform (MRI
Interventions, Inc.). Placement accuracy was analyzed. Real-time iMRI during
infusion cannula insertion allowed for monitoring of trajectory accuracy during
placement. During cannula insertion, no reinsertions or changes due to errors in 
targeting were necessary. The mean radial error was 1.0 ± 0.5 mm (± SD). There
was no correlation between the total length of the planned trajectory and the
radial error (Pearson's coefficient: -0.40; p = 0.5). The mean anteroposterior
and lateral errors were 0.9 ± 0.5 and 0.3 ± 0.2 mm, respectively. The mean
in-plane distance error was 1.0 ± 0.4 mm. The mean tip error (scalar distance
between the planned target and actual tip) was 1.9 ± 0.9 mm. There was no
correlation between the length of the planned trajectory and any of the measured 
errors. No complications were associated with cannula placement. Real-time
iMRI-based targeting and monitoring of infusion cannula placement is a safe,
effective, and accurate technique that should enable more selective perfusion of 
brain regions.

PMID: 25594325  [PubMed - in process]


818. Neurosurgery. 2015 Feb;76(2):N13-4. doi: 10.1227/01.neu.0000460592.48062.9b.

Therapeutic cortical-cortical coupling in Parkinson disease.

Alhourani A(1), Lipski W, Richardson M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

PMID: 25594197  [PubMed - in process]


819. Adv Nutr. 2015 Jan 15;6(1):64-72. doi: 10.3945/an.114.007500. Print 2015 Jan.

Flavonoid-based therapies in the early management of neurodegenerative diseases.

Solanki I(1), Parihar P(1), Mansuri ML(1), Parihar MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Studies in Zoology and Biotechnology, Vikram University, Ujjain,
India. (2)School of Studies in Zoology and Biotechnology, Vikram University,
Ujjain, India mdsparihar@gmail.com.

During the past several years, there has been enormous progress in the
understanding of the causative factors that initiate neuronal damage in various
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease,
multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington disease.
Preventing neuronal damage and neuronal death will have a huge clinical benefit. 
However, despite major advances in causative factors that trigger these
neurodegenerative diseases, to date there have been no therapies available that
benefit patients who suffer from these diseases. Because most neurodegenerative
diseases are late-onset and remain asymptomatic for most of the phases, the
therapies initiated in advanced stages of the disease have limited value to
patients. It may be possible to prevent or halt the disease progression to a
great extent if therapies start at the initial stage of the disease. Such
therapies may restore neuronal function by reducing or even eliminating the
primary stressor. Flavonoids are key compounds for the development of a new
generation of therapeutic agents that are clinically effective in treating
neurodegenerative diseases. Regular consumption of flavonoids has been associated
with a reduced risk of neurodegenerative diseases. In addition to their
antioxidant properties, these polyphenolic compounds exhibit neuroprotective
properties by their interaction with cellular signaling pathways followed by
transcription and translation that mediate cell function under both normal and
pathologic conditions. This review focuses on human intervention studies as well 
as animal studies on the role of various flavonoids in the prevention of
neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2015 American Society for Nutrition.

PMCID: PMC4288281 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 25593144  [PubMed - in process]


820. J Nucl Med. 2015 Feb;56(2):234-42. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.114.148619. Epub 2015 Jan 
15.

Use of 11C-PE2I PET in differential diagnosis of parkinsonian disorders.

Appel L(1), Jonasson M(2), Danfors T(3), Nyholm D(4), Askmark H(4), Lubberink
M(2), Sörensen J(3).

Author information: 
(1)PET Centre, Department of Medical Imaging, Uppsala University Hospital,
Uppsala, Sweden Section of Nuclear Medicine and PET, Department of Radiology,
Oncology, and Radiation Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden
lieuwe.appel@akademiska.se. (2)Section of Nuclear Medicine and PET, Department of
Radiology, Oncology, and Radiation Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden 
Medical Physics, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden. (3)PET Centre,
Department of Medical Imaging, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden
Section of Nuclear Medicine and PET, Department of Radiology, Oncology, and
Radiation Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. (4)Department of
Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; and.

In idiopathic Parkinson disease and atypical parkinsonian disorders, central
dopaminergic and overall brain functional activity are altered to different
degrees, causing difficulties in achieving an unambiguous clinical diagnosis. A
dual examination using (123)I-FP-CIT
((123)I-N-ω-fluoropropyl-2β-carbomethoxy-3β-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane, or
(123)I-ioflupane) SPECT and(18)F-FDG PET provides complementary information on
dopamine transporter (DAT) availability and overall brain functional activity,
respectively. Parametric images based on a single, dynamic (11)C-PE2I
(N-(3-iodoprop-2E-enyl)-2β-carbomethoxy-3β-(4-methyl-phenyl)nortropane) scan
potentially supply both DAT availability (nondisplaceable binding potential
[BPND]) and relative cerebral blood flow (relative delivery [R1]) at voxel level.
This study aimed to evaluate the validity of (11)C-PE2I PET against the
dual-modality approach using (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET.METHODS:
Sixteen patients with parkinsonian disorders had a dual examination with
(18)F-FDG PET and (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT following clinical routines and
additionally an experimental (11)C-PE2I PET scan. Parametric BPND and R1 images
were generated using receptor parametric mapping with the cerebellum as a
reference. T1-weighted MR imaging was used for automated definition of volumes of
interest (VOI). The DAT VOIs included the basal ganglia, whereas the overall
brain functional activity was examined using VOIs across the brain. BPND and R1
values were compared with normalized (123)I-FP-CIT and (18)F-FDG uptake values,
respectively, using Pearson correlations and regression analyses. In addition, 2 
masked interpreters evaluated the images visually, in both the routine and the
experimental datasets, for comparison of patient diagnoses.
RESULTS: Parametric (11)C-PE2I BPND and R1 images showed high consistency with
(123)I-FP-CIT SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET images. Correlations between (11)C-PE2I
BPND and (123)I-FP-CIT uptake ratios were 0.97 and 0.76 in the putamen and
caudate nucleus, respectively. Regional (11)C-PE2I R1 values were moderately to
highly correlated with normalized (18)F-FDG values (range, 0.61-0.94). Visual
assessment of DAT availability showed a high consistency between (11)C-PE2I BPND 
and (123)I-FP-CIT images, whereas the consistency was somewhat lower for
appraisal of overall brain functional activity using (123)I-FP-CIT and (18)F-FDG 
images. Substantial differences were found between clinical diagnosis and both
neuroimaging diagnoses.
CONCLUSION: A single, dynamic (11)C-PE2I PET investigation is a powerful
alternative to a dual examination with (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET for 
differential diagnosis of parkinsonian disorders. A large-scale patient study is,
however, needed to further investigate distinct pathologic patterns in overall
brain functional activity for various parkinsonian disorders.

© 2015 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Inc.

PMID: 25593112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Acta Neuropsychiatr. 2015 Apr;27(2):82-9. doi: 10.1017/neu.2014.43. Epub 2015 Jan
16.

Low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on Parkinson motor
function: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials.

Zhu H(1), Lu Z(2), Jin Y(1), Duan X(1), Teng J(1), Duan D(3).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Neurology,The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou
University,Henan,PR China. (2)3School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,Zhengzhou
University,Henan,PR China. (3)2Department of Physiology,Basic Medical
College,Zhengzhou University,Henan,PR China.

OBJECTIVES: Previous studies have demonstrated inconsistent findings regarding
the efficacy of low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)
in treating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Therefore, this
meta-analysis was conducted to assess the efficacy of low-frequency rTMS.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search (including PubMed, CCTR, Embase, Web
of Science, CNKI, CBM-disc, NTIS,EAGLE, Clinical Trials, Current Controlled
Trials, International Clinical Trials Registry) was conducted dating until June
2014. The key search terms ('Parkinson', 'PD', 'transcranial magnetic
stimulation', 'TMS', 'RTMS' and 'noninvasive brain stimulation') produced eight
high-quality randomised controlled trials (RCT) of low-frequency rTMS versus sham
stimulation.
RESULTS: These eight studies, composed of 319 patients, were meta-analysed
through assessment of the decreased Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
(UPDRS part III) score. Pooling of the results from these RCTs yielded an effect 
size of -0.40 (95%CI=-0.73 to -0.06, p<0.05) in UPDRS part III, which indicated
that low-frequency rTMS could have 5.05 (95%CI=-1.73 to -8.37) point decrease in 
UPDRS part III score than sham stimulation. Discussion Low-frequency rTMS had a
significant effect on motor signs in PD. As the number of RCTs and PD patients
included here was limited, further large-scale multi-center RCTs were required to
validate our conclusions.

PMID: 25592544  [PubMed - in process]


822. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2015 Apr;25(3):261-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tcm.2014.08.011. Epub
2014 Nov 20.

MY APPROACH to Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.

Triedman J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Professor of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School; Pediatric Cardiologist,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address:
John.Triedman@CARDIO.CHBOSTON.ORG.

PMID: 25592237  [PubMed - in process]


823. Nutrition. 2015 Feb;31(2):406-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2014.08.001. Epub 2014 Aug
23.

Lymphocyte vitamin C levels as potential biomarker for progression of Parkinson's
disease.

Ide K(1), Yamada H(2), Umegaki K(3), Mizuno K(1), Kawakami N(4), Hagiwara Y(4),
Matsumoto M(4), Yoshida H(4), Kim K(4), Shiosaki E(5), Yokochi T(5), Harada K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Evaluation and Informatics, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan. (2)Department
of Drug Evaluation and Informatics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan; Department of Neurology, Shizuoka
General Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamada@u-shizuoka-ken.ac.jp. (3)National Institute of Health and Nutrition,
Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department of Neurology, Shizuoka General Hospital, Shizuoka,
Japan. (5)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Shizuoka General Hospital, 
Shizuoka, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Vitamin C is a major antioxidant and also is known as a
neuromodulator in dopaminergic neurons. The aim of this study was to investigate 
the association between lymphocyte and plasma vitamin C levels in various stages 
of Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS: Sixty-two individuals with PD (age 71 ± 8.8 y [mean ± SD]) being treated
at Shizuoka General Hospital from December 2007 to August 2013 were consecutively
recruited. PD severity was classified using the Hoehn-Yahr scale for staging PD. 
Fasting blood samples were collected, and plasma and lymphocyte vitamin C levels 
were measured. The association between PD severity and vitamin C levels was
estimated by ordinal logistic regression with confounding variables.
RESULTS: The distribution of Hoehn-Yahr stages in patients was as follows: stage 
I, 7; II, 28; III, 16; and IV, 11. Lymphocyte vitamin C levels in patients with
severe PD were significantly lower (odds ratio [OR], 0.87; 95% confidence
interval [CI], 0.80-0.97; P < 0.01) compared with those at less severe stages.
Plasma vitamin C levels also tended to be lower in patients with severe PD;
however, this was not significant (OR, 0.98; 95% CI, 0.96-1.00; P = 0.09).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that lymphocyte vitamin C levels in the
peripheral blood may be a potentially useful biomarker for the progression of PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25592020  [PubMed - in process]


824. Nutrition. 2015 Feb;31(2):359-65. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2014.07.004. Epub 2014 Jul
30.

Selenium reduces bradykinesia and DNA damage in a rat model of Parkinson's
disease.

Ellwanger JH(1), Molz P(2), Dallemole DR(3), Pereira dos Santos A(3), Müller
TE(3), Cappelletti L(3), Gonçalves da Silva M(3), Franke SI(2), Prá D(2), Pêgas
Henriques JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Cellular and Molecular Biology, Federal University of Rio 
Grande do Sul-UFRGS, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; Laboratory of Histology and
Pathology, University of Santa Cruz do Sul-UNISC, Santa Cruz do Sul, RS, Brazil; 
Laboratory of Experimental Nutrition, University of Santa Cruz do Sul-UNISC,
Santa Cruz do Sul, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: Joelellwanger@unisc.br.
(2)Laboratory of Experimental Nutrition, University of Santa Cruz do Sul-UNISC,
Santa Cruz do Sul, RS, Brazil; Graduate Program in Health Promotion, University
of Santa Cruz do Sul-UNISC, Santa Cruz do Sul, RS, Brazil. (3)Laboratory of
Histology and Pathology, University of Santa Cruz do Sul-UNISC, Santa Cruz do
Sul, RS, Brazil. (4)Graduate Program in Cellular and Molecular Biology, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Sul-UFRGS, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; Institute of
Education Research, Development and Technological Innovation-ROYAL, Laboratory of
Genotoxicity-GENOTOX, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore the effects of selenium (Se) on
locomotor activity and DNA damage in a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD)
induced by paraquat (PQ).
METHODS: Forty-eight male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control
group (n = 12), Se group (n = 12), PQ group (n = 12), and Se + PQ group (n = 12).
PQ was administered intraperitoneally (10 mg/kg). Se was offered in the drinking 
water at a concentration of 11.18 μg/L. Locomotor activity was evaluated weekly
using the narrow beam test. The comet assay was performed to assess the level of 
DNA damage in leukocytes and in brain cells.
RESULTS: As expected, increased DNA damage was found in the PQ group compared
with the control and Se groups (P < 0.001). Interestingly, coadministration of Se
and PQ effectively prevented the harmful effects of the toxin in locomotor
activity and at the molecular level, reducing bradykinesia (P < 0.01) and DNA
damage in leukocytes compared with the PQ-only group (P < 0.001), whereas the
levels of DNA damage were comparable to those found in the control and Se groups 
(P > 0.05). Using the comet assay to analyze brain cells, no differences were
found between the groups with regard to damage index (P = 0.774), damage
frequency (P = 0.817), or non-detectable cell nuclei (P = 0.481).
CONCLUSION: In this experimental model of PQ-induced PD, the use of Se could
contribute to the maintenance of locomotor activity and the integrity of
leukocytes DNA. No changes in the levels of DNA damage in brain cells were
observed between the experimental groups.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25592015  [PubMed - in process]


825. Clin Chim Acta. 2015 Mar 10;442:52-5. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2014.12.032. Epub 2015
Jan 13.

Noninvasive monitoring of plasma L-dopa concentrations using sweat samples in
Parkinson's disease.

Tsunoda M(1), Hirayama M(2), Tsuda T(3), Ohno K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Tokyo, Tokyo
113-0033, Japan. (2)Department of Pathophysiological Laboratory Sciences, Nagoya 
University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1-20 Daiko-Minami, Higashi-ku, Nagoya
461-8673, Japan. (3)Pico-device Co. Ltd, 2-22-8 Chikusa, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya
464-0858, Japan. Electronic address: tsuda@pico-device.co.jp. (4)Division of
Neurogenetics, Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai, Showa-ku, Nagoya 466-8550, Japan.
Electronic address: ohnok@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: L-dopa (l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) is commonly used for treating
Parkinson's disease (PD). However, regardless of its prominent effect,
therapeutic range of L-dopa narrows down with disease progression, which leads to
development of motor complications including wearing off and dyskinesias. In
addition, intestinal absorption of L-dopa is inversely correlated with the amount
of oral protein intake, and shows intra- and inter-day variability. Hence,
frequent monitoring of plasma L-dopa concentrations is beneficial, but frequent
venipuncture imposes physical and psychological burdens on patients with PD.
METHODS: We investigated the usefulness of sweat samples instead of plasma
samples for monitoring L-dopa concentrations. With a monolithic silica
disk-packed spin column and the high-performance liquid
chromatography-electrochemical detection system, L-dopa in sweat samples was
successfully quantified and analyzed in 23 PD patients.
RESULTS: We found that the Pearson's correlation coefficient of the plasma and
sweat l-dopa concentrations was 0.678. Although the disease durations and
severities were not correlated with the deviation of the actual sweat L-dopa
concentrations from the fitted line, acquisition of the sweat samples under a
stable condition was technically difficult in severely affected patients. The
deviations may also be partly accounted for by skin permeability of L-dopa.
CONCLUSIONS: Measuring L-dopa concentrations in sweat is suitable to get further 
insights into the L-dopa metabolism.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25591966  [PubMed - in process]


826. Cell Death Differ. 2015 Jan 16. doi: 10.1038/cdd.2014.224. [Epub ahead of print]

Parkin maintains mitochondrial levels of the protective Parkinson's
disease-related enzyme 17-β hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 10.

Bertolin G(1), Jacoupy M(1), Traver S(2), Ferrando-Miguel R(1), Saint Georges
T(1), Grenier K(3), Ardila-Osorio H(1), Muriel MP(1), Takahashi H(4), Lees AJ(5),
Gautier C(6), Guedin D(6), Coge F(6), Fon EA(3), Brice A(1), Corti O(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Inserm, U1127, 75013 Paris, France [2] CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013 Paris, France 
[3] Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR S 1127, 75013 Paris, France [4]
Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle épinière, ICM, 75013 Paris, France. (2)CHU
Montpellier, Institute for Research in Biotherapy, Saint-Eloi Hospital,
Montpellier, France. (3)McGill Parkinson Program, Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada. (4)Department of Pathology, Brain Research Institute, University 
of Niigata, Niigata, Japan. (5)Reta Lila Weston Institute for Neurological
Studies, Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Laboratoire Chémogénétique Servier-Diverchim, Institut du Cerveau et de la
Moelle épinière, ICM, Paris, France.

Mutations of the PARK2 and PINK1 genes, encoding the cytosolic E3
ubiquitin-protein ligase Parkin and the mitochondrial serine/threonine kinase
PINK1, respectively, cause autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's disease
(PD). Parkin and PINK1 cooperate in a biochemical mitochondrial quality control
pathway regulating mitochondrial morphology, dynamics and clearance. This study
identifies the multifunctional PD-related mitochondrial matrix enzyme 17-β
hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 10 (HSD17B10) as a new Parkin substrate. Parkin
overproduction in cells increased mitochondrial HSD17B10 abundance by a mechanism
involving ubiquitin chain extension, whereas PARK2 downregulation or deficiency
caused mitochondrial HSD17B10 depletion in cells and mice. HSD17B10 levels were
also found to be low in the brains of PD patients with PARK2 mutations. Confocal 
and Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy revealed that HSD17B10
recruited Parkin to the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM), close to PINK1, 
both in functional mitochondria and after the collapse of mitochondrial membrane 
potential (ΔΨm). PD-causing PARK2 mutations impaired interaction with HSD17B10
and the HSD17B10-dependent mitochondrial translocation of Parkin. HSD17B10
overproduction promoted mitochondrial elongation and mitigated CCCP-induced
mitochondrial degradation independently of enzymatic activity. These effects were
abolished by overproduction of the fission-promiting dynamin-related protein 1
(Drp1). By contrast, siRNA-mediated HSD17B10 silencing enhanced mitochondrial
fission and mitophagy. These findings suggest that the maintenance of appropriate
mitochondrial HSD17B10 levels is one of the mechanisms by which Parkin preserves 
mitochondrial quality. The loss of this protective mechanism may contribute to
mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal degeneration in autosomal recessive
PD.Cell Death and Differentiation advance online publication, 16 January 2015;
doi:10.1038/cdd.2014.224.

PMID: 25591737  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


827. Neurol India. 2014 Nov-Dec;62(6):588-98. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.149365.

Epidemiology of neurological disorders in India: review of background, prevalence
and incidence of epilepsy, stroke, Parkinson's disease and tremors.

Gourie-Devi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences and 
Senior Consultant in Neurology, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, India.

Growth and development of neuroepidemiology in India during the last four decades
has been documented highlighting the historical milestones. The prevalence rates 
of the spectrum of neurological disorders from different regions of the country
ranged from 967-4,070 with a mean of 2394 per 100,000 population, providing a
rough estimate of over 30 million people with neurological disorders (excluding
neuroinfections and traumatic injuries). Prevalence and incidence rates of common
disorders including epilepsy, stroke, Parkinson's disease and tremors determined 
through population-based surveys show considerable variation across different
regions of the country. The need for a standardized screening questionnaire,
uniform methodology for case ascertainment and diagnosis is an essential requiste
for generating robust national data on neurological disorders. Higher rates of
prevalence of neurological disorders in rural areas, 6-8 million people with
epilepsy and high case fatality rates of stroke (27-42%) call for urgent
strategies to establish outreach neurology services to cater to remote and rural 
areas, develop National Epilepsy Control Program and establish stroke units at
different levels of health care pyramid.

PMID: 25591669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2014;114(10):35-8.

[The use of stalevo in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Russian]

Kretova AS, Lyubimov AV.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and tolerability of the three component drug
stalevo in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We analyzed the experience of using the antiparkinsonian
drug stalevo (levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone) in the treatment of acute stages of 
PD and elderly patients with restricted possibilities of using other
antiparkinsonian drugs. The study included 47 patients. A clinical example is
presented. RESULTS AND СONCLUSION: Stalevo increased motor and daily activities, 
reduced the severity of basic symptoms of PD and improved quality of life of the 
patients.

PMID: 25591514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Cell Cycle. 2015;14(5):712-20. doi: 10.1080/15384101.2015.1004937.

Neuronal cell cycle: the neuron itself and its circumstances.

Frade JM(1), Ovejero-Benito MC.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Neurobiology; Instituto 
Cajal; Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (IC-CSIC) ; Madrid ,
Spain.

Neurons are usually regarded as postmitotic cells that undergo apoptosis in
response to cell cycle reactivation. Nevertheless, recent evidence indicates the 
existence of a defined developmental program that induces DNA replication in
specific populations of neurons, which remain in a tetraploid state for the rest 
of their adult life. Similarly, de novo neuronal tetraploidization has also been 
described in the adult brain as an early hallmark of neurodegeneration. The aim
of this review is to integrate these recent developments in the context of cell
cycle regulation and apoptotic cell death in neurons. We conclude that a variety 
of mechanisms exists in neuronal cells for G1/S and G2/M checkpoint regulation.
These mechanisms, which are connected with the apoptotic machinery, can be
modulated by environmental signals and the neuronal phenotype itself, thus
resulting in a variety of outcomes ranging from cell death at the G1/S checkpoint
to full proliferation of differentiated neurons.

PMID: 25590687  [PubMed - in process]


830. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2014 Apr;1(4):251-7. doi: 10.1002/acn3.49. Epub 2014 Mar 
26.

Biogenic amine metabolism in juvenile neurocardiogenic syncope with dysautonomia.

Butler IJ(1), Lankford JE(1), Hashmi SS(2), Numan MT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Child and Adolescent Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, The
University of Texas Medical School at Houston Houston, Texas. (2)Pediatric
Research Center, Department of Pediatrics, The University of Texas Medical School
at Houston Houston, Texas. (3)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Department of
Pediatrics, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston Houston, Texas.

OBJECTIVE: Biogenic amine brain levels and their cerebral metabolism are
frequently studied by quantitation of biogenic amine metabolites in cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) compared to age-matched controls. There is a paucity of studies in
adolescents and young adults investigating the potential role of disordered
cerebral biogenic amine metabolism in young patients who have dysautonomia based 
on abnormal head-up tilt table (HUTT).
METHODS: In a cohort of juvenile patients with neurocardiogenic syncope and
dysautonomia documented by abnormal HUTT, biogenic amine metabolites of dopamine 
and serotonin were quantitated in 18 patients (15 females). HUTT testing is an
effective clinical method to evaluate posturally induced physiological events in 
patients suspected of neurocardiogenic syncope with dysautonomia.
RESULTS: Levels of the dopamine metabolite (homovanillic acid: HVA) and/or the
serotonin metabolite (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid: 5HIAA) were significantly
reduced in 13 patients compared to age-matched controls.
INTERPRETATION: Peripheral biogenic amines and their metabolites have been
extensively studied in adults with dysautonomia due to various neurodegenerative 
disorders (Parkinson disease, multiple system atrophy, primary autonomic
failure). Our findings indicate that more than two-thirds of this cohort of young
patients with dysautonomia of variable severity have a defect in cerebral
biogenic amines, particularly in dopamine and serotonin metabolism.

PMCID: PMC4292742
PMID: 25590038  [PubMed]


831. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Jan 14. pii: jnnp-2014-309562. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-309562. [Epub ahead of print]

A panel of nine cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers may identify patients with
atypical parkinsonian syndromes.

Magdalinou NK(1), Paterson RW(2), Schott JM(2), Fox NC(2), Mummery C(2), Blennow 
K(3), Bhatia K(4), Morris HR(5), Giunti P(6), Warner TT(1), de Silva R(1), Lees
AJ(1), Zetterberg H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, UCL Institute of
Neurology, London, UK. (2)Department of Neurodegeneration, Dementia Research
Centre, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK. (3)Clinical Neurochemistry
Laboratory, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at 
the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden. (4)Sobell Department of Motor
Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(5)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology, Royal Free
Hospital, London, UK. (6)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute of
Neurology, London, UK. (7)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement
Disorders, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK Department of Molecular
Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Patients presenting with parkinsonian syndromes share many clinical
features, which can make diagnosis difficult. This is important as atypical
parkinsonian syndromes (APSs) such as progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP),
multiple system atrophy (MSA) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS) carry a poor
prognosis, compared with patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition,
there is overlap between APS and dementia diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease
(AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD).
OBJECTIVE: To use a panel of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers to
differentiate patients with APS from PD and dementia.
METHODS: A prospective cohort of 160 patients and 30 control participants were
recruited from a single specialist centre. Patients were clinically diagnosed
according to current consensus criteria. CSF samples were obtained from patients 
with clinical diagnoses of PD (n=31), PSP (n=33), CBS (n=14), MSA (n=31), AD
(n=26) and FTD (n=16). Healthy, elderly participants (n=30) were included as
controls. Total τ (t-τ), phosphorylated τ (p-τ), β-amyloid 1-42 (Aβ42),
neurofilament light chain (NFL), α-synuclein (α-syn), amyloid precursor protein
soluble metabolites α and β (soluble amyloid precursor protein (sAPP)α, sAPPβ)
and two neuroinflammatory markers (monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and YKL-40)
were measured in CSF. A reverse stepwise regression analysis and the false
discovery rate procedure were used.
RESULTS: CSF NFL (p<0.001), sAPPα (p<0.001) and a-syn (p=0.003) independently
predicted diagnosis of PD versus APS. Together, these nine biomarkers could
differentiate patients with PD from APS with an area under the curve of 0.95 and 
subtypes of APS from one another. There was good discriminatory power between
parkinsonian groups, dementia disorders and healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS: A panel of nine CSF biomarkers was able to differentiate APS from
patients with PD and dementia. This may have important clinical utility in
improving diagnostic accuracy, allowing better prognostication and earlier access
to potential disease-modifying therapies.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25589779  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


832. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 14;35(2):795-806. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3768-14.2015.

Distinguishing the central drive to tremor in Parkinson's disease and essential
tremor.

Brittain JS(1), Cagnan H(1), Mehta AR(1), Saifee TA(2), Edwards MJ(2), Brown
P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Neurology Group, Division of Clinical Neurology, Nuffield
Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Medical Sciences Division, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DU, United Kingdom, and. (2)Sobell Department of Motor
Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, University College London Institute of
Neurology, London WC1N 3BG, United Kingdom. (3)Experimental Neurology Group,
Division of Clinical Neurology, Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
Medical Sciences Division, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DU, United Kingdom, 
and peter.brown@ndcn.ox.ac.uk.

Parkinson's disease (PD) and essential tremor (ET) are the two most common
movement disorders. Both have been associated with similar patterns of network
activation leading to the suggestion that they may result from similar network
dysfunction, specifically involving the cerebellum. Here, we demonstrate that
parkinsonian tremors and ETs result from distinct patterns of interactions
between neural oscillators. These patterns are reflected in the tremors' derived 
frequency tolerance, a novel measure readily attainable from bedside
accelerometry. Frequency tolerance characterizes the temporal evolution of tremor
by quantifying the range of frequencies over which the tremor may be considered
stable. We found that patients with PD (N = 24) and ET (N = 21) were separable
based on their frequency tolerance, with PD associated with a broad range of
stable frequencies whereas ET displayed characteristics consistent with a more
finely tuned oscillatory drive. Furthermore, tremor was selectively entrained by 
transcranial alternating current stimulation applied over cerebellum. Narrow
frequency tolerances predicted stronger entrainment of tremor by stimulation,
providing good evidence that the cerebellum plays an important role in pacing
those tremors. The different patterns of frequency tolerance could be captured
with a simple model based on a broadly coupled set of neural oscillators for PD, 
but a more finely tuned set of oscillators in ET. Together, these results reveal 
a potential organizational principle of the human motor system, whose disruption 
in PD and ET dictates how patients respond to empirical, and potentially
therapeutic, interventions that interact with their underlying pathophysiology.

Copyright © 2015 Brittain et al.

PMCID: PMC4293424
PMID: 25589772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


833. J Alzheimers Dis. 2015 Jan 1;45(2):349-62. doi: 10.3233/JAD-142841.

Mechanisms of molecular mimicry involving the microbiota in neurodegeneration.

Friedland RP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Louisville School of Medicine,
Louisville, KY, USA.

The concept of molecular mimicry was established to explain commonalities of
structure which developed in response to evolutionary pressures. Most examples of
molecular mimicry in medicine have involved homologies of primary protein
structure which cause disease. Molecular mimicry can be expanded beyond amino
acid sequence to include microRNA and proteomic effects which are either
pathogenic or salutogenic (beneficial) in regard to Parkinson's disease,
Alzheimer's disease, and related disorders. Viruses of animal or plant origin may
mimic nucleotide sequences of microRNAs and influence protein expression. Both
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases involve the formation of transmissible
self-propagating prion-like proteins. However, the initiating factors responsible
for creation of these misfolded nucleating factors are unknown. Amyloid patterns 
of protein folding are highly conserved through evolution and are widely
distributed in the world. Similarities of tertiary protein structure may be
involved in the creation of these prion-like agents through molecular mimicry.
Cross-seeding of amyloid misfolding, altered proteostasis, and oxidative stress
may be induced by amyloid proteins residing in bacteria in our microbiota in the 
gut and in the diet. Pathways of molecular mimicry induced processes induced by
bacterial amyloid in neurodegeneration may involve TLR 2/1, CD14, and NFκB, among
others. Furthermore, priming of the innate immune system by the microbiota may
enhance the inflammatory response to cerebral amyloids (such as amyloid-β and
α-synuclein). This paper describes the specific molecular pathways of these
cross-seeding and neuroinflammatory processes. Evolutionary conservation of
proteins provides the opportunity for conserved sequences and structures to
influence neurological disease through molecular mimicry.

PMID: 25589730  [PubMed - in process]


834. Neurology. 2015 Feb 10;84(6):609-16.

Colonic mucosal a-synuclein lacks specificity as a biomarker for Parkinson
disease.

Visanji NP, Marras C, Kern DS, Al Dakheel A, Gao A, Liu LW, Lang AE, Hazrati LN.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the utility of detecting a-synuclein (aSyn) in colonic
mucosal biopsy tissue as a potential diagnostic biomarker for Parkinson disease
(PD).
METHODS: We used the paraffin-embedded tissue (PET) blot, which degrades
physiologic nonaggregated aSyn using proteinase K and enhances antigen retrieval 
allowing sensitive and selective detection of remaining protein aggregates, to
detect aSyn in colonic mucosal biopsies from 15 patients with early PD (,3
years), 7 patients with later PD (.5 years), and 11 individuals without PD. aSyn 
and serine 129–phosphorylated aSyn (Ser129p-aSyn) were assessed by PET blot and
conventional immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: PET blot–resistant aggregated aSyn and Ser129p-aSyn was present in 12 of
15 individuals with early PD, 7 of 7 individuals with later PD, and 11 of 11
control subjects. The number of biopsies positive by PET blot relative to
conventional immunohistochemistry was significantly lower in both PD groups
compared with the control group for both aSyn and Ser129p-aSyn,whereas routine
immunohistochemistry was positive more often in PD, but was positive in as many
as 9 of 11 control individuals.
CONCLUSION: Strong evidence of the presence of aggregated hyperphosphorylated
aSyn in individuals with and without PD, using such a sensitive and specific
method as the PET blot, suggests that colonic deposition of aSyn is not a useful 
diagnostic test for PD. The utility of detecting aSynin the colon as a biomarker 
in combination with other assessments remains to be determined.

PMCID: PMC4335990 [Available on 2015-08-10]
PMID: 25589666  [PubMed - in process]


835. Mov Disord. 2015 Jan 14. doi: 10.1002/mds.26146. [Epub ahead of print]

Subthalamic deep brain stimulation differently alters striatal dopaminergic
receptor levels in rats.

Carcenac C(1), Favier M, Vachez Y, Lacombe E, Carnicella S, Savasta M, Boulet S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Grenoble Institut
des Neurosciences, Dynamique et Physiopathologie des Ganglions de la Base,
Grenoble, France; Grenoble University, Grenoble, France.

High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is recognized
as an effective treatment for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), but
its mechanisms, particularly as concern dopaminergic transmission, remain
unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate changes in the expression of
dopaminergic receptors (D1 , D2 , and D3 receptors) after prolonged (4 h)
unilateral STN-HFS in anesthetized intact rats and rats with total dopaminergic
denervation. We used [(3) H]SCH 23390, [(125) I]iodosulpride, and [(125)
I]OH-PIPAT to assess the densities of D1 R, D2 R, and D3 R, respectively, within 
different areas of the striatum-a major input structure of the basal
ganglia-including the nucleus accumbens. We found that STN-HFS increased D1 R
levels in almost all of the striatal areas examined, in both intact and
denervated rats. By contrast, STN-HFS led to a large decrease in D2 R and D3 R
levels, limited to the nucleus accumbens and independent of the dopaminergic
state of the animals. These data suggest that the influence of STN-HFS on
striatal D1 R expression may contribute to its therapeutic effects on motor
symptoms, whereas its impact on D2 R/D3 R levels in the nucleus accumbens may
account for the neuropsychiatric side effects often observed in stimulated PD
patients, such as postoperative apathy. © 2015 International Parkinson and
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25588931  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


836. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2015 Jan 15. doi: 10.1111/jce.12616. [Epub ahead of 
print]

An Anteroseptal Accessory Pathway in a Patient with Dextrocardia and Situs
Inversus.

Chin A(1), Phiri T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town and
Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.

PMID: 25588496  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


837. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):187-96. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140472.

Participatory design in Parkinson's research with focus on the symptomatic
domains to be measured.

Serrano JA(1), Larsen F(2), Isaacs T(3), Matthews H(3), Duffen J(3), Riggare
S(4), Capitanio F(5), Ferreira JJ(6), Domingos J(6), Maetzler W(7), Graessner
H(8); SENSE-PARK Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)NST-Norwegian Centre for Integrated Care and Telemedicine, University Hospital
North Norway, Tromsø, Norway Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health
Sciences, The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway. (2)NST-Norwegian
Centre for Integrated Care and Telemedicine, University Hospital North Norway,
Tromsø, Norway. (3)The Cure Parkinson's Trust, London, UK. (4)Karolinska
Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. (5)Portal Unidos contra el Parkinson, Spain.
(6)Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Lisbon, Portugal CNS - Campus Neurológico Sénior, Torres Vedras,
Portugal. (7)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for
Clinical Brain Research, University of Tuebingen, Germany German Center for
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Germany. (8)Institute for Medical Genetics and
Applied Genomics, University of Tuebingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: There is a growing interest in the objective assessment of health
related outcomes using technology providing quality measurements to be applied
not only in daily clinical practice, but also in scientific research. Differences
in the understandings of the condition and the terminology used between people
with Parkinson's (PwPs), clinicians and technical developers may influence the
progress of a participatory design process.
OBJECTIVE: This paper reports on a participatory design process to achieve a
consensus among PwPs, clinicians and technologists over the selection of a set of
symptomatic domains to be continuously assessed, in order to provide results
relevant to both PwPs and clinicians.
METHODS: The methods used were a Web based user survey, end-user focus groups,
ranking by combined methods, a Delphi process performed among clinicians and
scientists, and prioritization of the results in a concertation workshop for
PwPs, clinicians and technologists.
RESULTS: The following symptomatic domains were commonly agreed by PwPs and
clinicians to be of central importance in a system of continuous assessment:
hypokinesia/bradykinesia, tremor, sway, gait, sleep and cognition. This list
satisfied both the needs of the PwPs and the concerns of the clinicians regarding
the means of advancing new strategies in assessment and interventions in PD.
CONCLUSIONS: A participatory design strategy allowed the definition of a
consensual list of symptomatic domains. Both the strategy and the achieved
results may be of relevance for similar interdisciplinary approaches in the field
of PD using a participatory design involving patients, clinicians and
technologists.

PMID: 25588357  [PubMed - in process]


838. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):1-19. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140491.

Role of α-synuclein in inducing innate and adaptive immunity in Parkinson
disease.

Allen Reish HE(1), Standaert DG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental Therapeutics, Department of
Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Alpha-synuclein (α-syn) is central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD).
Gene duplications, triplications and point mutations in SNCA1, the gene encoding 
α-syn, cause autosomal dominant forms of PD. Aggregated and post-translationally 
modified forms of α-syn are present in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in both
sporadic and familial PD, and recent work has emphasized the prion-like ability
of aggregated α-syn to produce spreading pathology. Accumulation of abnormal
forms of α-syn is a trigger for PD, but recent evidence suggests that much of the
downstream neurodegeneration may result from inflammatory responses. Components
of both the innate and adaptive immune systems are activated in PD, and
influencing interactions between innate and adaptive immune components has been
shown to modify the pathological process in animal models of PD. Understanding
the relationship between α-syn and subsequent inflammation may reveal novel
targets for neuroprotective interventions. In this review, we examine the role of
α-syn and modified forms of this protein in the initiation of innate and adaptive
immune responses.

PMCID: PMC4405142 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 25588354  [PubMed - in process]


839. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):165-74. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140456.

Long-term safety and maintenance of efficacy of levodopa-carbidopa intestinal
gel: an open-label extension of the double-blind pivotal study in advanced
Parkinson's disease patients.

Slevin JT(1), Fernandez HH(2), Zadikoff C(3), Hall C(4), Eaton S(4), Dubow J(4), 
Chatamra K(4), Benesh J(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Kentucky Medical Center, Lexington, KY, USA. (2)Cleveland
Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA. (3)Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. (4)AbbVie Inc., North Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is delivered continuously
via intrajejunal percutaneous gastrostomy tube.
OBJECTIVE: To examine long-term safety, efficacy and quality of life of LCIG in
an open-label extension study.
METHODS: Patients received 52 weeks of open-label LCIG treatment following a
12-week double-blind, double-dummy trial in which they were randomized to either 
LCIG or immediate-release oral levodopa-carbidopa. Patient cohort designation was
by receipt of LCIG in the preceding trial randomization (continuing-LCIG vs.
LCIG-naïve patients).
RESULTS: Sixty-two of 66 subjects in the double-blind proceeded to the open-label
extension. Most subjects (95%) reported ≥1 adverse event (AE); only 3 subjects
(4.8%) discontinued due to AEs. AE incidence declined gradually over 52 weeks.
Serious AEs were reported by 23%. LCIG-naïve patients (N = 29) showed a decrease 
in "Off" time and an increase in "On" time without troublesome dyskinesia (change
from baseline to final visit in mean [SD] hours = -2.34 [2.78] P < 0.001 and 2.19
[3.70] P = 0.005, respectively), while continuing-LCIG patients (N = 33) showed
sustained "Off" time duration and further improvement in "On" time without
troublesome dyskinesia (-0.42 [2.67] P = 0.377 and 1.00 [2.58] P = 0.036,
respectively). The majority of patients in both groups (LCIG-naïve,
continuing-LCIG, respectively) were rated 'Much Improved' or 'Very Much Improved'
at final visit on the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement scale (69.0%,
69.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: Continuing-LCIG patients continued to derive benefit from LCIG while
the magnitude of improvement among LCIG-naïve patients was similar to that
observed for patients on LCIG in the preceding double-blind study. The overall AE
profile was consistent with previous phase 3 clinical trials involving the LCIG
system.

PMID: 25588353  [PubMed - in process]


840. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):277-81. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.029. Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Hospitalization in Parkinson's disease: a survey of UK neurologists,
geriatricians and Parkinson's disease nurse specialists.

Skelly R(1), Brown L(2), Fakis A(3), Walker R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine for the Elderly, Royal Derby Hospital, Uttoxeter Road, 
Derby DE22 3NE, UK. Electronic address: rob.skelly@nhs.net. (2)Department of
Neurology, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby, UK. Electronic address:
lisa.brown8@nhs.net. (3)Research & Development Department, Royal Derby Hospital, 
Derby, UK. Electronic address: apostolos.fakis@nhs.net. (4)Northumbria Health
Care NHS Foundation Trust, North Tyneside General Hospital, Rake Lane, North
Shields NE29 8NH, UK; Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, UK. 
Electronic address: richard.walker@nhct.nhs.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Care for people with Parkinson's admitted to hospital is often
suboptimal and services for these patients vary. We conducted a national survey
to document current service provision in the UK and to explore clinicians' views 
on standards of care and potential service improvements.
METHOD: We used the mailing lists of British Geriatric Society Movement Disorder 
Section (BGS-MDS), British and Irish Neurologists' Movement Disorders Group
(BRING-MD), and Parkinson's Disease Nurse Specialists Association (PDNSA) and
invited participation by email with a link to an online survey
(www.surveymonkey.com). The survey was posted in spring 2014 for six weeks.
RESULTS: There were 93 respondents from at least 65 different hospitals. The
estimated response rate was 19%. Respondents were: 35 consultant geriatricians;
21 consultant neurologists, 29 Parkinson's Disease Nurse Specialists (PDNS), 8
others. 81% respondents report their hospital has a PDNS. 79% have a geriatrician
with an interest in Parkinson's. 54% have a Parkinson's clinical guideline, 16% a
cohort/specialist ward for Parkinson's and 11% an electronic system for flagging 
Parkinson's admissions. 21% rated overall standard of care as poor. 61% were not 
confident that medications were given on time. Having a PDNS see all Parkinson's 
in-patients, flagging of Parkinson's admissions and having a Parkinson's outreach
service were ranked most likely of 16 potential service developments to improve
care.
CONCLUSION: Care for Parkinson's in-patients is not highly rated by UK
Parkinson's clinicians. Interventions to improve care need to be studied but wide
variations in current service provision pose a challenge for future study design.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25585995  [PubMed - in process]


841. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):282-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.030. Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Evidence for polymerase gamma, POLG1 variation in reduced mitochondrial DNA copy 
number in Parkinson's disease.

Gui YX(1), Xu ZP(2), Lv W(1), Zhao JJ(1), Hu XY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Affiliated with School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310016, China. (2)Department of
Medicine, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. (3)Department of
Neurology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Affiliated with School of Medicine,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310016, China. Electronic address:
Huxingyue2003@163.com.

BACKGROUND: It remains unclear whether the mtDNA content is related to the
clinicopathological prognosis in Parkinson's disease (PD).
METHODS/RESULTS: We analyzed the copy number of mtDNA using quantitative
real-time PCR in 414 cases with PD and 231 healthy subjects from mainland of
China. The level of mtDNA was significantly decreased in PD patients' peripheral 
blood as compared to that of healthy controls (p < 0.001). Furthermore, lower
mtDNA copy number was more frequently detected (75%) in the older onset age group
(≥ 50 years old) than that in (49%) the younger group (<50 years old, p = 0.007),
suggesting mtDNA content might be an important genetic event in PD progression.
Using direct sequencing, we examined the mutations in the D-loop region of mtDNA 
in 318 PD patients. The results revealed that 17% of the PD patients carried
mutations in the D-loop of mtDNA, and 55% of these mutations were heteroplasmic. 
In addition, PD patients harboring AA + AA genotype of c.2070-12T > A and
c.2070-64G > A in POLG1 along with mutations in POLG1 had a significantly lower
copy number of mtDNA than those of PD patients without POLG1 alterations.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results provided evidence for a significantly lower of mtDNA
copy number in PD patients and POLG1 variation for reducing mtDNA copy number in 
PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25585994  [PubMed - in process]


842. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):231-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.012. Epub 2014 Dec 19.

Global long-term study on motor and non-motor symptoms and safety of
levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel in routine care of advanced Parkinson's disease
patients; 12-month interim outcomes.

Antonini A(1), Yegin A(2), Preda C(2), Bergmann L(2), Poewe W(3); GLORIA study
investigators and coordinators.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson and Movement Disorders Unit, IRCCS Hospital San Camillo, Venice,
Italy. Electronic address: angelo3000@yahoo.com. (2)AbbVie, Inc., USA. (3)Dept of
Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Austria.

INTRODUCTION: Intermittent oral delivery of levodopa is a major contributing
factor for motor complications in Parkinson's disease (PD). Continuous infusion
of levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) into the jejunum using a portable
pump via percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) improves motor complications
and quality of life (QoL).
OBJECTIVES: To record long-term effectiveness of advanced PD patients undergoing 
LCIG infusion in routine care, by Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
(UPDRS), Non-Motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS), PDQ-8 and EQ-5D questionnaires.
METHODS: Overall, 375 patients from 75 movement disorder centers in 18 countries 
were enrolled in this prospective non-interventional study. The 12-month interim 
outcomes of the first 172 included patients are presented here.
RESULTS: There were reductions of mean daily "Off" time from baseline (BL) (7.1 ±
3.5 h) and "On" time with dyskinesias (5.2 ± 4.5 h) at month 12 (M12) of -4.7 ±
3.4 and -1.7 ± 5.0 h respectively (p < 0.0001; p = 0.0228). UPDRS II and III "On"
scores decreased from BL to M12 (p = 0.0107 and p = 0.0128). Total NMSS and PDQ-8
scores improved at M12 (p = 0.0014 and p = 0.0100). Mean LCIG dose administered
through PEG at first visit (day after implantation) was 1304 ± 618 mg/day and
remained stable through M12. Continuous LCIG infusion tolerability and adverse
drug reactions were consistent with the known safety profile of previous studies.
CONCLUSIONS: This observational, routine-care study supports long-term safety and
efficacy of LCIG infusion in advanced PD including motor, non-motor and QoL
improvements.

Copyright © 2015 AbbVie Inc. employs authors Yegin, Preda, and Bergmann.
Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25585993  [PubMed - in process]


843. Brain Nerve. 2015 Jan;67(1):99-104. doi: 10.11477/mf.1416200092.

[Correlation between cognitive impairment and postural instability in patients
with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Owan Y(1), Murakami H, Mori Y, Yamagishi K, Watanabe D, Kato H, Kezuka M,
Kawamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Showa University School of Medicine.

Correlation between frontal-executive function and motor functions, such as gait 
and postural control, has attracted attention in Parkinson's disease (PD).
However, correlations between other cognitive functional domains and motor
functions have not been examined. Thus, we examined the correlation between
different domains of cognitive function and motor functions. Sixty-five PD
patients were recruited for the present study. Cognitive functions were assessed 
by the 10 subtests of the Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination
(COGNISTAT). Motor functions were assessed by the Unified Parkinson's Disease
Rating Scale (UPDRS) as partIII for general motor function and sum of related
items for tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability. Spearman's
correlation coefficients between each cognitive and motor assessment were
compared. Among the 10 subtests of the COGNISTAT, constructions showed
significant correlation with UPDRS partIII (p<0.01), bradykinesia (p<0.01), and
postural instability (p<0.001). The latter correlation was stronger than those
between all motor assessments and both all patients backgrounds and other
COGNISTAT subtests. In PD patients, postural instability correlates with not only
frontal executive dysfunctions but also parietal dysfunctions, such as
visuospatial and constructive impairments. The postural maintenance system is
suggested to share common physiology with not only frontal-executive function but
also parietal functions.

PMID: 25585439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 May;1852(5):937-50. doi: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2015.01.004.
Epub 2015 Jan 10.

Inflaming the diseased brain: a role for tainted melanins.

Jeitner TM(1), Kalogiannis M(2), Patrick PA(3), Gomolin I(4), Palaia T(5),
Ragolia L(5), Brand D(3), Delikatny EJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY 11501, 
USA. Electronic address: Thomas_Jeitner@nymc.edu. (2)Department of Neurosciences,
Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY 11501, USA. (3)Department of Outcomes
Research, Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY 11501, USA. (4)Department of 
Geriatrics, Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY 11501, USA. (5)Department
of Vascular Biology, Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY 11501, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104,
USA.

Inflammation plays a crucial role in neurodegenerative diseases, but the
irritants responsible for this response remain largely unknown. This report
addressed the hypothesis that hypochlorous acid reacts with dopamine to produce
melanic precipitates that promote cerebral inflammation. Spectrophotometric
studies demonstrated that nM amounts of HOCl and dopamine react within seconds. A
second-order rate constant for the reaction of HOCl and dopamine of 2.5 ×
10(4)M(-1)s(-1) was obtained by measuring loss of dopaminergic fluorescence due
to HOCl. Gravimetric measurements, electron microscopy, elemental analysis, and a
novel use of flow cytometry confirmed that the major product of this reaction is 
a precipitate with an average diameter of 1.5μm. Flow cytometry was also used to 
demonstrate the preferential reaction of HOCl with dopamine rather than albumin. 
Engulfment of the chlorodopamine particulates by phagocytes in vitro caused these
cells to release TNFα and die. Intrastriatal administration of 10(6) particles
also increased the content of TNFα in the brain and led to a 50% loss of the
dopaminergic neurons in the nigra. These studies indicate that HOCl and dopamine 
react quickly and preferentially with each other to produce particles that
promote inflammation and neuronal death in the brain.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25585261  [PubMed - in process]


845. Lakartidningen. 2015 Jan 6;112. pii: C6SE.

Identifiering av paroxysmala, kortvariga arytmier: - Intermittent registrering
mer effektiv än 24-timmars Holter-EKG.

[Article in Swedish]

Hendrikx T(1), Rosenqvist M(2), Sandström H(1), Persson M(3), Hornsten R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Family Medicin - Public Health and Clinical Medicine Umeå, Sweden Family
Medicin - Public Health and Clinical Medicine Umeå, Sweden. (2)- , Sweden - ,
Sweden. (3)Ersboda Health Care Centre - Umeå, Sweden - , Sweden. (4)Clinical
Physiology, Heart Centre and Department of Surgical and Perioperative Science,
Umeå University - Umeå, Sweden Department of Surgical and Perioperative Science, 
Umeå University - Clinical Physiology, Heart Centre Umeå, Sweden.

Many patients suffer from palpitations or dizziness/presyncope. These patients
are often referred for Holter ECG (24 hour), although the sensitivity for
detecting arrhythmias is low. A new method, short intermittent regular and
symptomatic ECG registrations at home, might be a convenient and more sensitive
alternative also suitable for primary health care. In this case report we present
a patient who had contacted health care several times during a seven year period 
for paroxysmal palpitations. Routine examination with 24 hour Holter ECG and
event recorder did not result in a diagnosis. Using intermittent handheld ECG
registration at home, a paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmia was diagnosed.
Further investigation revealed that the patient had a concealed
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome.

PMID: 25584602  [PubMed - in process]


846. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jan 27;112(4):1202-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1417423112. Epub 2015 Jan 12.

STEP61 is a substrate of the E3 ligase parkin and is upregulated in Parkinson's
disease.

Kurup PK(1), Xu J(1), Videira RA(2), Ononenyi C(1), Baltazar G(2), Lombroso
PJ(3), Nairn AC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Child Study Center and. (2)Health Science Research Center, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Universidade da Beira Interior, 6200-506 Covilhã, Portugal. (3)Child
Study Center and Departments of Psychiatry and Neurobiology, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520; and. (4)Departments of Psychiatry and
angus.nairn@yale.edu.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the degeneration of dopaminergic
neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). The loss of SNc dopaminergic
neurons affects the plasticity of striatal neurons and leads to significant motor
and cognitive disabilities during the progression of the disease. PARK2 encodes
for the E3 ubiquitin ligase parkin and is implicated in genetic and sporadic PD. 
Mutations in PARK2 are a major contributing factor in the early onset of
autosomal-recessive juvenile parkinsonism (AR-JP), although the mechanisms by
which a disruption in parkin function contributes to the pathophysiology of PD
remain unclear. Here we demonstrate that parkin is an E3 ligase for STEP61
(striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase), a protein tyrosine phosphatase 
implicated in several neuropsychiatric disorders. In cellular models, parkin
ubiquitinates STEP61 and thereby regulates its level through the proteasome
system, whereas clinically relevant parkin mutants fail to do so. STEP61 protein 
levels are elevated on acute down-regulation of parkin or in PARK2 KO rat
striatum. Relevant to PD, STEP61 accumulates in the striatum of human sporadic PD
and in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned mice. The
increase in STEP61 is associated with a decrease in the phosphorylation of its
substrate ERK1/2 and the downstream target of ERK1/2, pCREB [phospho-CREB (cAMP
response element-binding protein)]. These results indicate that STEP61 is a novel
substrate of parkin, although further studies are necessary to determine whether 
elevated STEP61 levels directly contribute to the pathophysiology of PD.

PMCID: PMC4313846 [Available on 2015-07-27]
PMID: 25583483  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Feb;11(2):68. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.265. Epub 2015 Jan 
13.

Parkinson disease. Reduced level of dietary vitamin D is associated with PD.

Fyfe I.

PMID: 25582446  [PubMed - in process]


848. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Feb;11(2):98-110. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.252. Epub 2015 
Jan 13.

Axial disability and deep brain stimulation in patients with Parkinson disease.

Fasano A(1), Aquino CC(1), Krauss JK(2), Honey CR(3), Bloem BR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Clinic and the Edmond J. Safra
Program in Parkinson's Disease, Division of Neurology, Toronto Western Hospital, 
UHN, University of Toronto, 399 Bathurst Street, 7 Mc412, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8,
Canada. (2)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School Hannover, Carl-Neuberg
Straße 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. (3)Division of Neurosurgery at the University 
of British Columbia, 8105-2775 Laurel Street, Vancouver General Hospital,
Vancouver, BC V5Z 1M9, Canada. (4)Radboud University Medical Centre, Donders
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Department of Neurology, PO Box
9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, Netherlands.

Axial motor signs-including gait impairment, postural instability and postural
abnormalities-are common and debilitating symptoms in patients with advanced
Parkinson disease. Dopamine replacement therapy and physiotherapy provide, at
best, partial relief from axial motor symptoms. In carefully selected candidates,
deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus or globus pallidus
internus is an established treatment for 'appendicular' motor signs (limb tremor,
bradykinesia and rigidity). However, the effects of DBS on axial signs are much
less clear, presumably because motor control of axial and appendicular functions 
is mediated by different anatomical-functional pathways. Here, we discuss the
successes and failures of DBS in managing axial motor signs. We systematically
address a series of common clinical questions associated with the preoperative
phase, during which patients presenting with prominent axial signs are considered
for DBS implantation surgery, and the postoperative phase, in particular, the
management of axial motor signs that newly develop as postoperative
complications, either acutely or with a delay. We also address the possible
merits of new targets-including the pedunculopontine nucleus area, zona incerta
and substantia nigra pars reticulata-to specifically alleviate axial symptoms.
Supported by a rapidly growing body of evidence, this practically oriented Review
aims to support decision-making in the management of axial symptoms.

PMID: 25582445  [PubMed - in process]


849. J Neurochem. 2015 May;133(4):590-7. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13026. Epub 2015 Jan 26.

Systemically administered neuregulin-1β1 rescues nigral dopaminergic neurons via 
the ErbB4 receptor tyrosine kinase in MPTP mouse models of Parkinson's disease.

Depboylu C(1), Rösler TW, de Andrade A, Oertel WH, Höglinger GU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Philipps University, Marburg, Germany.

Previously, we demonstrated that systemically injected extracellular domain of
neuregulin-1β1 (Nrg1β1), a nerve growth and differentiation factor, passes the
blood-brain barrier and rescues dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra in the
6-hydroxydopamine-mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we studied the
effects of peripherally administered Nrg1β1 in another toxin-based mouse model of
PD. For this purpose, (i) nigrostriatal pathway injury was induced by treatment
of adult wild-type mice with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) 
in acute and subchronic paradigms; and (ii) Nrg1β1 or saline (control) were
administered 1 h before each MPTP injection. We found that Nrg1β1 significantly
reduced the loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons in both intoxication paradigms
(7 days post-injection). However, Nrg1β1 did not reverse MPTP-induced decrease in
dopamine levels and dopaminergic fibers in the striatum. We also show that MPTP
conversion to its toxic metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium as well as levels 
of dopamine transporter, mediating intracellular uptake of
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, are unaffected by Nrg1β1. Finally, neuroprotective
properties of Nrg1β1 on nigral dopaminergic neurons are specifically mediated by 
ErbB4 as revealed through the study of ErbB4 knockout mice. In conclusion,
systemically administered Nrg1β1 protects midbrain dopaminergic neurons against
this PD-related toxic insult. Thus, Nrg1β1 may have a benefit in the treatment of
PD patients. Previously, we demonstrated that systemically administered
neuregulin-1β1 (Nrg1β1) passes the blood-brain barrier, phosphorylates ErbB4
receptors and elevates dopamine (DA) levels in the nigrostriatal system of
healthy mice. Nrg1β1 protects nigral DAergic neurons in the 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA) mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we show that Nrg1β1
rescues nigral DAergic neurons also against
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced cell death. ErbB4
expression is essential for the neuroprotective effect of Nrg1β1 on midbrain
DAergic neurons. Nrg1β1 might be beneficial in PD treatment.

© 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMID: 25581060  [PubMed - in process]


850. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):317-20. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.019. Epub 2014 Dec 26.

24 h Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel may reduce falls and "unresponsive"
freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease.

Chang FC(1), Tsui DS(1), Mahant N(1), Wolfe N(1), Kim SD(1), Ha AD(1), Drury
M(1), Griffith JM(1), Fung VS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney,
Australia. (2)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, Westmead
Hospital, Sydney, Australia; Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney,
Australia. Electronic address: vscfung@ozemail.com.au.

OBJECTIVE: We report a prospective, open label study of 24 h levodopa-carbidopa
intestinal gel (LCIG) as treatment for levodopa "unresponsive" freezing of gait
(FOG) associated with Parkinson's disease.
METHOD: 5 patients with disabling FOG, documented as being levodopa
"unresponsive", were commenced on continuous 24 h infusion LCIG therapy with the 
night-time rate at 50-80% of the daytime infusion rate. Patients underwent
baseline, 3 and 6 month gait assessments, documentation of their falls frequency 
and completed FOG questionnaires.
RESULT: Median 360° turn time improved by 54%, fall frequency score reduced from 
3 to 0 at 6 months, FOG questionnaire score improved by 14% and Timed Up- and -Go
8 m walk was unchanged.
CONCLUSION: 24 h LCIG therapy may reduce levodopa "unresponsive" FOG and
associated falls. A larger prospective study is needed for confirmation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25578290  [PubMed - in process]


851. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):249-53. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.018. Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Impact of mild cognitive impairment on outcome following deep brain stimulation
surgery for Parkinson's disease.

Abboud H(1), Floden D(2), Thompson NR(3), Genc G(2), Oravivattanakul S(2),
Alsallom F(2), Swa B(2), Kubu C(2), Pandya M(2), Gostkowski M(2), Cooper S(2),
Machado AG(2), Fernandez HH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurological Restoration, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue,
Mail Code U2, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA; Neurology Department, Faculty of
Medicine, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt. Electronic address:
abboudh@ccf.org. (2)Center for Neurological Restoration, Cleveland Clinic, 9500
Euclid Avenue, Mail Code U2, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. (3)Department of
Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Mail Code
JJN3-01, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA; Neurological Institute, Center for Outcomes
Research and Evaluation, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH
44195, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Unlike dementia, the effect of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) on
outcomes after deep brain stimulation (DBS) in Parkinson's disease (PD) is less
clear. We aimed to examine the effect of MCI on short- and long-term DBS
outcomes.
METHODS: To study the effect of MCI type, cognitive domains (attention, language,
visuospatial, memory, executive function), and Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) score 
on immediate postoperative outcomes (postoperative confusion, hospitalization
days), PD patients who underwent DBS at our Center from 2006 to 2011 were
analyzed. To determine cognitive predictors of intermediate (6-month) and
long-term (1-year) post-operative outcomes, the changes in functional and
quality-of-life (QOL) scores were analyzed in a smaller group with available
preoperative health status measures.
RESULTS: We identified 130 patients [71% male, mean age: 63 ± 9.1, mean PD
duration: 10.7 ± 5.1]. At preoperative assessment, 60% of patients had
multiple-domain MCI, 21% had single-domain MCI, and 19% had normal cognition. MCI
presence and type as well as DRS performance did not affect immediate outcomes.
Attention impairment predicted longer postoperative hospitalization (P = 0.0015) 
and showed a trend towards occurrence of postoperative confusion (P = 0.089). For
intermediate and long-term outcomes we identified 56 patients [73.2% male, mean
age: 61.3 ± 9.6, mean PD duration: 10.6 ± 4.7]. Visuospatial impairment showed a 
trend towards less improvement in 6-month functional score (P = 0.0652), and
1-year QOL score (P = 0.0517).
CONCLUSION: The presence of MCI did not affect DBS outcomes. However, the types
of impaired domains were more detrimental. Detailed cognitive testing can help
stratify low- and high-risk patients based on their pattern of cognitive
dysfunction.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25578289  [PubMed - in process]


852. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Mar;36(3):1519-28. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.12.006. Epub 2014 Dec 11.

Association between MAPT haplotype and memory function in patients with
Parkinson's disease and healthy aging individuals.

Winder-Rhodes SE(1), Hampshire A(2), Rowe JB(3), Peelle JE(4), Robbins TW(5),
Owen AM(6), Barker RA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, King's
College London, UK. Electronic address: sophie.winder-rhodes@doctors.org.uk.
(2)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK; The Division of Brain
Sciences, Department of Medicine, Imperial College, London, UK. (3)Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; MRC Cognition and
Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience
Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. (4)Department of
Otolaryngology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK. (6)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK; The Brain
and Mind Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; 
Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK. Electronic address: rab46@cam.ac.uk.

Genetic variation is associated with differences in the function of the brain as 
well as its susceptibility to disease. The common H1 haplotypic variant of the
microtubule-associated protein tau gene (MAPT) has been related to an increased
risk for Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore, among PD patients, H1 homozygotes
have an accelerated progression to dementia. We investigated the neurocognitive
correlates of MAPT haplotypes using functional magnetic resonance imaging.
Thirty-seven nondemented patients with PD (19 H1/H1, 18 H2 carriers) and 40
age-matched controls (21 H1/H1, 19 H2 carriers) were scanned during performance
of a picture memory encoding task. Behaviorally, H1 homozygosity was associated
with impaired picture recognition memory in PD patients and control subjects.
These impairments in the H1 homozygotes were accompanied by an altered
blood-oxygen level-dependent response in the medial temporal lobe during
successful memory encoding. Additional age-related differences in blood-oxygen
level-dependent response were observed in the medial temporal lobes of H1
homozygotes with PD. These results suggest that common variation in MAPT is not
only associated with the dementia of PD but also differences in the neural
circuitry underlying aspects of cognition in normal aging.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4353560
PMID: 25577413  [PubMed - in process]


853. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):314-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.016. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Severity of orthostatic hypotension in the course of Parkinson's disease: no
correlation with the duration of the disease.

Jost WH(1), Augustis S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson-Klinik Wolfach, 77709 Wolfach, Germany. (2)Department of Neurology, 
Medical Academy, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, 50009 Kaunas,
Lithuania. Electronic address: sarunas.augustis@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is a common issue in Parkinson's disease
(PD), affecting about 30%-40% of PD patients. Symptoms of OH include
lightheadedness, dizziness, postural instability, vertigo and blurred vision. OH 
considerably contributes to disease burden and reduced quality of life for PD
patients.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the severity of OH in PD advances significantly
with the duration of the disease.
METHODS: For 106 PD patients lying-to-standing orthostatic tests were performed
to evaluate orthostasis. Severity of OH was measured as maximal drop of systolic 
blood pressure (SBP) after postural challenge, as the mean of three measurements.
The relationship between the maximal drop of SBP and the duration of PD was
tested applying ANOVA. Consecutively, 64 patients under regular ambulant
supervision received appointments to evaluate their orthostasis repeatedly. From 
these patients a separate cohort was set up to investigate OH progression in the 
course of PD.
RESULTS: The lack of a correlation between the severity of OH in PD and the
duration of the disease was determined (p = 0.064). The long term analysis for
the patients under regular ambulant supervision demonstrated that the severity of
OH does not advance in the course of PD in a statistically significant manner (p 
= 0.83).
CONCLUSIONS: OH does not appear to be a symptom only of the late stage of PD. The
presence of OH along with early motor signs does not necessarily point to
multiple system atrophy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25577025  [PubMed - in process]


854. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):243-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.017. Epub 2014 Dec 26.

Systematic review and meta-analysis of hydrocarbon exposure and the risk of
Parkinson's disease.

Palin O(1), Herd C(2), Morrison KE(3), Jagielski AC(4), Wheatley K(5), Thomas
GN(6), Clarke CE(7).

Author information: 
(1)Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit, School of Cancer Sciences, Robert Aitken
Institute, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (2)School of Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, College of Medicine and Dental Sciences, University of
Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK. (3)School of Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, College of Medicine and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham,
Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK; Department of Neurosciences, Queen Elizabeth Hospital,
University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK. 
(4)Public Health, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Medical and Dental
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (5)Cancer Research UK
Clinical Trials Unit, School of Cancer Sciences, University of Birmingham,
Birmingham, UK. (6)Public Health, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of
Medical and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK; Institute 
of Public Health, Social and Preventive Medicine, Mannheim Medical Faculty,
University of Heidelberg, 68135 Mannheim, Germany. (7)School of Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, College of Medicine and Dental Sciences, University of
Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK; Department of Neurology, Sandwell and West
Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust, Birmingham, UK. Electronic address:
carlclarke@nhs.net.

BACKGROUND: There is no consensus on the association between exposure to
hydrocarbons and the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). We conducted a systematic 
review and meta-analysis to summarise the epidemiological evidence and included a
new large case-control study.
METHODS: Data were extracted following a predefined protocol. Risk estimates
regarding the association between hydrocarbon exposure and PD were consolidated
to produce a summary odds ratio (OR), 95% confidence intervals (CI), and p-value.
In our case-control study, 1463 PD patients and 685 controls were recruited from 
clinical trials and completed a structured questionnaire describing their
previous working exposure to hydrocarbons and other demographic measures. The
association between exposure to hydrocarbons and risk of PD was evaluated using
logistic regression.
RESULTS: The systematic search identified 13 case-control studies matching the
inclusion criteria. The meta-analysis included 3020 PD cases and 6494 controls.
The summary OR was 1.32 (95% CI 1.08-1.62, p = 0.006) for hydrocarbon exposure
(ever versus never). In the PD GEN study, occupational exposure to hydrocarbons
significantly increased the risk of PD (OR = 1.61; 95% CI 1.10-2.36, p = 0.014), 
and risk dose-dependently increased for subjects exposed greater than 10 years
compared to subjects never exposed (OR = 2.19; 95% CI 1.13-4.26, p = 0.021). The 
addition of PD GEN data increased the total numbers to 4483 PD cases and 7179
controls and strengthened the significant association (summary OR = 1.36; 95% CI 
1.13-1.63, p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review supports a positive association between
hydrocarbon exposure and PD. Data from prospective studies are required to
reinforce the relationship between hydrocarbon exposure and PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25577023  [PubMed - in process]


855. Ann Pharm Fr. 2015 Jan;73(1):3-12. doi: 10.1016/j.pharma.2014.10.001. Epub 2014
Nov 4.

In search of innovative therapeutics for neuropsychiatric disorders: the case of 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Féger J(1), Hirsch EC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, U 1127, 75013 Paris, France; CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013 Paris, France;
Sorbonne universités, UPMC univiersité Paris 06, UMR S 1127, 75013 Paris, France;
Institut du cerveau et de la moelle épinière (ICM), thérapeutique expérimentale
de la maladie de Parkinson, hôpital de la Salpêtrière, 47, boulevard de
l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris cedex 13, France. Electronic address: j.feger@orange.fr.
(2)Inserm, U 1127, 75013 Paris, France; CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013 Paris, France;
Sorbonne universités, UPMC univiersité Paris 06, UMR S 1127, 75013 Paris, France;
Institut du cerveau et de la moelle épinière (ICM), thérapeutique expérimentale
de la maladie de Parkinson, hôpital de la Salpêtrière, 47, boulevard de
l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris cedex 13, France. Electronic address:
etienne.hirsch@upmc.fr.

The recent medical literature highlights the lack of new drugs able to prevent or
treat neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease or Parkinson disease. 
Yet, the prevalence of these diseases is growing, related to increasing life
expectancy, and is leading to a rise in their economic and social cost. At the
same time, pharmaceutical companies are reducing or halting their investment in
neuropharmacological research. Why have advances in basic neuroscience and our
understanding of these diseases not allowed innovative discoveries in drug
research? This review will try to explain this failure and suggest possible
solutions: develop basic and clinical research but with the emphasis on
translational and truly collaborative research; improve preclinical studies by
developing more appropriate animal models, using new biomarkers and methodologies
such as imaging suitable for clinical trials, providing worthwhile information on
the ability of the drug to reach its intended target and induce significant
pharmacological changes; build a new system of research management, based on
stronger interdisciplinary relations between preclinical and clinical research
and including the introduction of international precompetitive research between
academic teams, start-up companies and pharmaceutical laboratories; hold early
discussions with the regulatory authorities during preclinical studies and at the
beginning of clinical trials in order to validate the methodological approaches; 
involve patients' associations in this new organization of research. These
changes should help to ensure the discovery of effective treatments for these
pathologies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25577012  [PubMed - in process]


856. Neuropsychologia. 2015 Feb;68:107-16. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.12.022. Epub 2015 Jan 7.

Compensatory fronto-parietal hyperactivation during set-shifting in unmedicated
patients with Parkinson's disease.

Gerrits NJ(1), van der Werf YD(2), Verhoef KM(3), Veltman DJ(4), Groenewegen
HJ(5), Berendse HW(6), van den Heuvel OA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy & Neurosciences, VU University Medical Center (VUmc),
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam (NCA), Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: njhmgerrits@gmail.com. (2)Department of Anatomy 
& Neurosciences, VU University Medical Center (VUmc), Amsterdam, The Netherlands;
Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, an Institute of the Royal Netherlands
Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus
Amsterdam (NCA), Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Anatomy &
Neurosciences, VU University Medical Center (VUmc), Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience
Campus Amsterdam (NCA), Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (5)Department of Anatomy &
Neurosciences, VU University Medical Center (VUmc), Amsterdam, The Netherlands;
Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam (NCA), Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (6)Department of
Neurology, VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam (NCA),
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (7)Department of Anatomy & Neurosciences, VU
University Medical Center (VUmc), Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of
Psychiatry, VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam
(NCA), Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) often suffer from impairments in executive
functions, such as mental rigidity, which can be measured as impaired
set-shifting. Previous studies have shown that set-shifting deficits in patients 
with PD result from hypo-excitation of the caudate nucleus and lateral prefrontal
cortices. The results of these studies may have been influenced by the inclusion 
of patients on dopaminergic medication, and by choosing set-shifting paradigms in
which performance also depends on other cognitive mechanisms, such as
matching-to-sample. To circumvent these potential confounding factors, we tested 
patients with PD that were not on dopamine replacement therapy, and we developed 
a new feedback-based paradigm to measure the cognitive construct set-shifting
more accurately. In this case-control study, 18 patients with PD and 35
well-matched healthy controls performed the set-shifting task, while task-related
neural activation was recorded using functional magnetic resonance imaging.
Behaviourally, PD patients, compared with healthy controls, made more errors
during repeat trials, but not set-shift trials. The patients, compared with
controls, showed increased task-related activation of the bilateral inferior
parietal cortex, and the right superior frontal gyrus, and decreased activation
of the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex during set-shift trials. Our
findings suggest that, despite decreased task-related activation of the right
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, these early-stage unmedicated patients with PD
do not yet suffer from set-shifting deficits due to compensatory hyperactivation 
in the inferior parietal cortex and the superior frontal gyrus.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25576907  [PubMed - in process]


857. Ageing Res Rev. 2015 Mar;20:37-45. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2014.12.011. Epub 2015 Jan 
7.

Lifelong brain health is a lifelong challenge: from evolutionary principles to
empirical evidence.

Mattson MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research
Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, United States. Electronic address:
mark.mattson@nih.gov.

Although the human brain is exceptional in size and information processing
capabilities, it is similar to other mammals with regard to the factors that
promote its optimal performance. Three such factors are the challenges of
physical exercise, food deprivation/fasting, and social/intellectual engagement. 
Because it evolved, in part, for success in seeking and acquiring food, the brain
functions best when the individual is hungry and physically active, as typified
by the hungry lion stalking and chasing its prey. Indeed, studies of animal
models and human subjects demonstrate robust beneficial effects of regular
exercise and intermittent energy restriction/fasting on cognitive function and
mood, particularly in the contexts of aging and associated neurodegenerative
disorders. Unfortunately, the agricultural revolution and the invention of
effort-sparing technologies have resulted in a dramatic reduction or elimination 
of vigorous exercise and fasting, leaving only intellectual challenges to bolster
brain function. In addition to disengaging beneficial adaptive responses in the
brain, sedentary overindulgent lifestyles promote obesity, diabetes and
cardiovascular disease, all of which may increase the risk of cognitive
impairment and Alzheimer's disease. It is therefore important to embrace the
reality of the requirements for exercise, intermittent fasting and critical
thinking for optimal brain health throughout life, and to recognize the dire
consequences for our aging population of failing to implement such brain-healthy 
lifestyles.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMCID: PMC4346441 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25576651  [PubMed - in process]


858. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Mar;75:177-85. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2014.12.026. Epub 2015 Jan 
6.

Bursting activity of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons in mouse
parkinsonism in awake and anesthetized states.

Lobb CJ(1), Jaeger D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. (2)Department
of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. Electronic address:
djaeger@emory.edu.

Electrophysiological changes in basal ganglia neurons are hypothesized to
underlie motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous results in
head-restrained MPTP-treated non-human primates have suggested that increased
bursting within the basal ganglia and related thalamic and cortical areas may be 
a hallmark of pathophysiological activity. In this study, we investigated whether
there is increased bursting in substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) output
neurons in anesthetized and awake, head-restrained unilaterally lesioned 6-OHDA
mice when compared to control mice. Confirming previous studies, we show that
there are significant changes in the firing rate and pattern in SNpr neuron
activity under urethane anesthesia. The regular firing pattern of control
urethane-anesthetized SNpr neurons was not present in the 6-OHDA-lesioned group, 
as the latter neurons instead became phase locked with cortical slow wave
activity (SWA). Next, we examined whether such robust electrophysiological
changes between groups carried over to the awake state. SNpr neurons from both
groups fired at much higher frequencies in the awake state than in the
anesthetized state and surprisingly showed only modest changes between awake
control and 6-OHDA groups. While there were no differences in firing rate between
groups in the awake state, an increase in the coefficient of variation (CV) was
observed in the 6-OHDA group. Contrary to the bursting hypothesis, this increased
CV was not due to changes in bursting but was instead due to a mild increase in
pausing. Together, these results suggest that differences in SNpr activity
between control and 6-OHDA lesioned mice may be strongly influenced by changes in
network activity during different arousal and behavioral states.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4406485 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25576395  [PubMed - in process]


859. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Feb 13;457(3):280-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.12.101. Epub 2015 Jan 7.

A bidirectional drug repositioning approach for Parkinson's disease through
network-based inference.

Rakshit H(1), Chatterjee P(2), Roy D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Information Engineering, Computer Science and Mathematics,
University of L'Aquila, 67100, Italy. Electronic address: hindol.iserc@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biophysics, Bose Institute, Acharya J.C. Bose Centenary
Building, P-1/12 C.I.T Scheme VII M, Kolkata 700054, India. Electronic address:
chatterjee_paulami@yahoo.co.in. (3)Department of Biophysics, Bose Institute,
Acharya J.C. Bose Centenary Building, P-1/12 C.I.T Scheme VII M, Kolkata 700054, 
India. Electronic address: roydebjani13@gmail.com.

Parkinson's Disease (PD) is one of the most prevailing neurodegenerative
disorders. Novel computational approaches are required to find new ways of using 
the existing drugs or drug repositioning, as currently there exists no cure for
PD. We proposed a new bidirectional drug repositioning method that consists of
Top-down and Bottom-up approaches and finally gives information about significant
repositioning drug candidates. This method takes into account of the topological 
significance of drugs in the tripartite Indication-drug-target network (IDTN) as 
well the significance of their targets in the PD-specific protein-protein
interaction network (PPIN). 9 non-Parkinsonian drugs have been proposed as the
significant repositioning candidates for PD. In order to find out the efficiency 
of the repositioning candidates we introduced a parameter called the On-target
ratio (OTR). The average OTR value of final repositioning candidates has been
found to be higher than that of known PD specific drugs.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25576361  [PubMed - in process]


860. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 2015 Feb;30(2):114-20. doi:
10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2014.12.012. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Subgroup analysis of PD tremor with loading: action tremor as a combination of
classical rest and physiological tremor.

Rahimi F(1), Bee C(2), Wang D(3), Janabi-Sharifi F(4), Almeida QJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Electrical Engineering Department, University of Bonab, Velayat Highway,
Bonab, East Azerbaijan 5551761167, Iran; Electrical and Computer Engineering
department, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Electronic
address: frahimi@bonabu.ac.ir. (2)Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin,
Ireland. Electronic address: carinabee@rcsi.ie. (3)Electrical and Computer
Engineering department, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: dwang@uwaterloo.ca. (4)Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 
Department, Ryerson University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address:
fsharifi@ryerson.ca. (5)Sun Life Financial Movement Disorders Research &
Rehabilitation Centre, Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: qalmeida@wlu.ca.

BACKGROUND: In Parkinson disease, tremor is a challenging symptom to manage,
partly due to inadequate characterization. The current (classic) model of tremor 
is characterized by a resting tremor with a single strong peak in 3.5-6.5Hz
range. The presence of action tremor, including postural, isometric, and kinetic 
tremors, has been disputed in the literature but not comprehensively evaluated.
Analysis of hand tremor in action compared to rest, and possible subgrouping of
tremor trends, may improve characterization.
METHODS: Twenty Parkinson patients and 14 controls were recruited. Tremor
amplitude was measured across 9 sequentially loaded tasks, in off and on
medication states. Tremor energy was separated into 2 frequency bands (B1,
3.5-6.5Hz; B2=physiological tremor, 7.5-16.5Hz) across all activity levels.
Automatic classification was used for subgroup analysis.
FINDINGS: Automatic classification yielded 3 predominant tremor trends (G1, G2,
and G3). These were significantly different from each other and from controls. G1
demonstrated closest resemblance to classical Parkinsonian tremor, with highest
tremor energy at rest and with overall dominance in B1 for lower loads. G2-G3 did
not show tremor energy dominance in either band. Medication reduced tremor energy
only for G1 in both B1 and B2.
INTERPRETATION: Subgrouping the loading effect on tremor is a novel and viable
method of rationalizing (non-classic) action tremor in Parkinson disease. Rest
and action tremors appear not to be limited to 3.5-6.5Hz and may have
considerable share of physiological tremor. Finding the contribution of each
frequency band to total tremor energy and their trends with load may optimize
therapy options.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25576018  [PubMed - in process]


861. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):167-77. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.008. Epub
2015 Jan 7.

The human histaminergic system in neuropsychiatric disorders.

Shan L(1), Bao AM(2), Swaab DF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou
310058, China; Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, an Institute of the Royal 
Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amsterdam 1105 BA, The Netherlands;
Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, University of California at 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA; Neurobiology Research, Veterans
Administration Greater Los Angeles Health Care System, 16111 Plummer Street,
North Hills, CA 91343, USA. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Zhejiang University
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310058, China. Electronic address:
baoaimin@zju.edu.cn. (3)Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, an Institute of
the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amsterdam 1105 BA, The
Netherlands.

Histaminergic neurons are exclusively located in the hypothalamic tuberomamillary
nucleus, from where they project to many brain areas. The histaminergic system is
involved in basic physiological functions, such as the sleep-wake cycle, energy
and endocrine homeostasis, sensory and motor functions, cognition, and attention,
which are all severely affected in neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we present
recent postmortem findings on the alterations in this system in neuropsychiatric 
disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD),
Huntington's disease (HD), depression, and narcolepsy. In addition, we highlight 
the need to validate animal models for these diseases and also for Tourette's
syndrome (TS) in relation to alterations in the histaminergic system. Moreover,
we discuss the potential for, and concerns over, the use of novel histamine 3
receptor (H3R) antagonists/inverse agonists as treatment for such disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25575625  [PubMed - in process]


862. J Mot Behav. 2015;47(1):29-45. doi: 10.1080/00222895.2014.941784.

Does response inhibition have pre- and postdiagnostic utility in Parkinson's
disease?

MacDonald HJ(1), Byblow WD.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Sport and Exercise Science , University of Auckland , New
Zealand.

Parkinson's disease (Pd) is the second most prevalent degenerative neurological
condition worldwide. Improving and sustaining quality of life is an important
goal for Parkinson's patients. Key areas of focus to achieve this goal include
earlier diagnosis and individualized treatment. In this review the authors
discuss impulse control in Pd and examine how measures of impulse control from a 
response inhibition task may provide clinically useful information (a) within an 
objective test battery to aid earlier diagnosis of Pd and (b) in postdiagnostic
Pd, to better identify individuals at risk of developing impulse control
disorders with dopaminergic medication.

PMID: 25575221  [PubMed - in process]


863. Prog Neurobiol. 2015 Feb;125:47-62. doi: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2014.12.001. Epub
2015 Jan 6.

Gaucher-related synucleinopathies: the examination of sporadic neurodegeneration 
from a rare (disease) angle.

Sardi SP(1), Cheng SH(2), Shihabuddin LS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Genzyme, a Sanofi Company, 49 New York Avenue, Framingham, MA 01701, USA.
Electronic address: pablo.sardi@genzyme.com. (2)Genzyme, a Sanofi Company, 49 New
York Avenue, Framingham, MA 01701, USA.

Gaucher disease, the most common lysosomal storage disease, is caused by a
recessively inherited deficiency in glucocerebrosidase and subsequent
accumulation of toxic lipid substrates. Heterozygous mutations in the lysosomal
glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA1) have recently been recognized as the highest
genetic risk factor for the development of α-synuclein aggregation disorders
("synucleinopathies"), including Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy 
bodies (DLB). Despite the wealth of experimental, clinical and genetic evidence
that supports the association between mutant genotypes and synucleinopathy risk, 
the precise mechanisms by which GBA1 mutations lead to PD and DLB remain unclear.
Decreased glucocerebrosidase activity has been demonstrated to promote
α-synuclein misprocessing. Furthermore, aberrant α-synuclein species have been
reported to downregulate glucocerebrosidase activity, which further contributes
to disease progression. In this review, we summarize the recent findings that
highlight the complexity of this pathogenetic link and how several pathways that 
connect glucocerebrosidase insufficiency with α-synuclein misprocessing have
emerged as potential therapeutic targets. From a translational perspective, we
discuss how various therapeutic approaches to lysosomal dysfunction have been
explored for the treatment of GBA1-related synucleinopathies, and potentially,
for non-GBA1-associated neurodegenerative diseases. In summary, the link between 
GBA1 and synucleinopathies has become the paradigm of how the study of a rare
lysosomal disease can transform the understanding of the etiopathology, and
hopefully the treatment, of a more prevalent and multifactorial disorder.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25573151  [PubMed - in process]


864. Brain Stimul. 2014 Dec 3. pii: S1935-861X(14)00398-2. doi:
10.1016/j.brs.2014.11.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of Stochastic Vestibular Galvanic Stimulation and LDOPA on Balance and
Motor Symptoms in Patients With Parkinson's Disease.

Samoudi G(1), Jivegård M(1), Mulavara AP(2), Bergquist F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Inst of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of
Gothenburg, Box 431, 405 30 Göteborg, Sweden. (2)Universities Space Research
Association, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Inst of
Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Box 431, 405 30 Göteborg, 
Sweden. Electronic address: filip.bergquist@gu.se.

BACKGROUND: Balance problems contribute to reduced quality of life in Parkinson's
disease (PD) and available treatments are often insufficient for treating axial
and postural motor symptoms.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the safety of use and possible effects of stochastic
vestibular stimulation (SVS) alone and combined with LDOPA in patients with PD.
METHODS: SVS or sham stimulation was administered to 10 PD patients in a
double-blind placebo controlled cross-over pilot study. Motor symptoms and
balance were evaluated in a defined off-medication state and after a 200 mg test 
dose of LDOPA, using UPDRS-III, Posturo-Locomotor-Manual (PLM) movement times
(MT), static posturography and force plate measurements of the correcting
response to a balance perturbation.
RESULTS: Patients did not detect when SVS was active, but SVS increased nausea
after LDOPA in two patients. Mixed model analysis demonstrated that SVS improved 
balance corrections after a backward perturbation and shortened the postural
response time. In static posturography there was significant interaction between 
effects of SVS, medication and proprioceptive input (standing on foam vs. on hard
support) and SVS decreased the total sway-path with eyes closed and off
medication. As expected, LDOPA improved the UPDRS-III scores and MT. There was an
interaction between the effect of SVS and LDOPA on UPDRS-III partly because of
reduced UPDRS-III scores with SVS in the off-medication state.
CONCLUSIONS: Short term use of SVS is safe, improves corrective postural
responses and may have a small positive effect on motor symptoms in PD patients
off treatment.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25573070  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


865. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):226-30. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.011. Epub 2014 Dec 19.

Prognostic factors for early mortality in Parkinson's disease.

Oosterveld LP(1), Allen JC Jr(2), Reinoso G(3), Seah SH(1), Tay KY(1), Au WL(1), 
Tan LC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute, 11 Jalan Tan Tock
Seng, Singapore 308433, Singapore; Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders
Centre, Department of Neurology, USA National Parkinson Foundation Centre of
Excellence, National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore. (2)Duke-NUS Graduate
Medical School, Singapore. (3)Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience
Institute, 11 Jalan Tan Tock Seng, Singapore 308433, Singapore; Parkinson's
Disease and Movement Disorders Centre, Department of Neurology, USA National
Parkinson Foundation Centre of Excellence, National Neuroscience Institute,
Singapore; Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore. (4)Department of
Neurology, National Neuroscience Institute, 11 Jalan Tan Tock Seng, Singapore
308433, Singapore; Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Centre, Department 
of Neurology, USA National Parkinson Foundation Centre of Excellence, National
Neuroscience Institute, Singapore. Electronic address: louis_tan@nni.com.sg.

INTRODUCTION: There are few large studies that have evaluated prognostic factors 
for mortality in Parkinson's disease (PD). This large study aimed to identify
demographic and clinical features associated with early mortality in PD.
METHODS: PD patients at the National Neuroscience Institute were identified from 
the Movement Disorders Database from which demographic information and
prospectively collected baseline disease characteristics were obtained. All study
patients were linked to the Singapore Registry of Birth and Death to obtain
information on vital status through December 31, 2012. The prognostic variables
analyzed include patient demographics, baseline disease characteristics, and type
of PD medication used. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was carried out to
identify factors associated with the risk of mortality in PD.
RESULTS: Of the 1786 PD patients identified, 363 (20.3%) had died during the
11-year study period. Median survival time from diagnosis was 15.8 years (range
0.3-31). Factors associated with higher mortality (HR, 95% CI) were older age at 
diagnosis (1.06, 1.03-1.08), male gender (2.29, 1.57-3.35), Hoehn & Yahr (HY)
stage ≥ 2.5 (1.54, 1.07-2.22), UPDRS motor score ≥ 30 (1.63, 1.13-2.35), higher
bradykinesia subscores (1.05, 1.01-1.09) and cognitive impairment (2.30,
1.55-3.41).
CONCLUSIONS: In the largest study to date evaluating baseline disease
characteristics prognostic of mortality risk in PD, we found that male gender,
older age at diagnosis, higher baseline HY stage, higher baseline UPDRS motor
scores, higher bradykinesia subscores and baseline cognitive impairment were
associated with early mortality in PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25572499  [PubMed - in process]


866. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):236-42. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.014. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

The relationship between real world ambulatory activity and falls in incident
Parkinson's disease: influence of classification scheme.

Mactier K(1), Lord S(2), Godfrey A(3), Burn D(4), Rochester L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, NE4 5PL, UK. Electronic
address: karen.mactier@newcastle.ac.uk. (2)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle
University, NE4 5PL, UK. Electronic address: sue.lord@newcastle.ac.uk.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, NE4 5PL, UK. Electronic
address: alan.godrey@newcastle.ac.uk. (4)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle
University, NE4 5PL, UK. Electronic address: david.burn@newcastle.ac.uk.
(5)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, NE4 5PL, UK. Electronic
address: lynn.rochester@newcastle.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Few studies have categorized falls in early Parkinson's disease
(PD) and little is known about falls incidence and evolution. Fall incidence and 
frequency are reported to be 'U' shaped with respect to disease severity and may 
be influenced by time spent engaged in ambulatory activity.
METHODS: Twelve months prospective falls in an incident PD cohort (n = 111) were 
reported and the relationship between falls and ambulatory activity was examined 
in a subgroup (n = 83). Fall events were collected using standardised protocols
and were categorized by fall frequency (non-faller, single fall, recurrent falls)
and also by a novel classification based on pre-fall event: (1) engaged in
advanced activity; (2) ambulation; and (3) transition. Non-parametric statistics 
compared groups in both classifications.
RESULTS: At baseline 23 (20.7%) of the cohort had fallen, increasing to 41
(36.9%) participants over 12 months. Total time spent walking was significantly
lower for transition fallers compared with non-fallers and ambulation fallers (p 
= 0.041), who also had significantly increased disease severity. There were no
significant relationships when fallers were categorized by frequency. We present 
an inverted U curve model depicting the relationship between falls and activity
over time in PD, and propose that at this stage transition and ambulation fallers
occupy different places on the curve.
CONCLUSIONS: Falls are more common than recognised in newly-diagnosed PD. Daily
activity is reduced even in early disease for people who fall during transitions.
Classification methods that take pre-fall event into account may be useful to
understand the heterogeneity of this complex problem.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25572498  [PubMed - in process]


867. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2014 Nov;139(48):2434-5.

[Deep Brain Stimulation - an effective therapy not only for Parkinson's disease].

[Article in German]

Kathmann W.

PMID: 25568902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 7;35(1):96-111. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5231-13.2015.

Gene expression analyses identify Narp contribution in the development of
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

Charbonnier-Beaupel F(1), Malerbi M(2), Alcacer C(3), Tahiri K(4), Carpentier
W(5), Wang C(6), During M(6), Xu D(7), Worley PF(7), Girault JA(3), Hervé D(3),
Corvol JC(8).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, Paris, France, Inserm, UMR-S 1127,
ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France, CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013
Paris, France, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, Department of Pharmacy,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France. (2)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC
Univ Paris 06, Paris, France, Inserm, UMR-S 1127, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière
Hospital, 75013 Paris, France, CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013 Paris, France, Inserm UMR-S 
839, 75005 Paris, France, Institut du Fer à Moulin, 75005 Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, Paris, France, Inserm UMR-S 839,
75005 Paris, France, Institut du Fer à Moulin, 75005 Paris, France. (4)Sorbonne
Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, Paris, France, Inserm, UMR-S 1127, ICM,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France, CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013 Paris,
France. (5)UPMC Univ Paris 06, Post genomic platform P3S, 75013 Paris, France.
(6)Departments of Molecular Virology, Immunology and Medical Genetics,
Neuroscience and Neurological Surgery, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 
43210. (7)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Solomon H. Snyder
Department of Neuroscience, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, and. (8)Sorbonne
Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, Paris, France, Inserm, UMR-S 1127, ICM,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France, CNRS, UMR 7225, 75013 Paris,
France, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, Inserm, Clinical Investigation
Center, CIC-1422, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 75013 Paris, France
jean-christophe.corvol@psl.aphp.fr.

In Parkinson's disease, long-term dopamine replacement therapy is complicated by 
the appearance of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). One major hypothesis is that
LID results from an aberrant transcriptional program in striatal neurons induced 
by L-DOPA and triggered by the activation of ERK. To identify these genes, we
performed transcriptome analyses in the striatum in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned
mice. A time course analysis (0-6 h after treatment with L-DOPA) identified an
acute signature of 709 genes, among which genes involved in protein phosphatase
activity were overrepresented, suggesting a negative feedback on ERK activation
by l-DOPA. l-DOPA-dependent deregulation of 28 genes was blocked by pretreatment 
with SL327, an inhibitor of ERK activation, and 26 genes were found
differentially expressed between highly and weakly dyskinetic animals after
treatment with L-DOPA. The intersection list identified five genes: FosB, Th,
Nptx2, Nedd4l, and Ccrn4l. Nptx2 encodes neuronal pentraxin II (or neuronal
activity-regulated pentraxin, Narp), which is involved in the clustering of
glutamate receptors. We confirmed increased Nptx2 expression after L-DOPA and its
blockade by SL327 using quantitative RT-PCR in independent experiments. Using an 
escalating L-DOPA dose protocol, LID severity was decreased in Narp knock-out
mice compared with their wild-type littermates or after overexpression of a
dominant-negative form of Narp in the striatum. In conclusion, we have identified
a molecular signature induced by L-DOPA in the dopamine-denervated striatum that 
is dependent on ERK and associated with LID. Here, we demonstrate the implication
of one of these genes, Nptx2, in the development of LID.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/350096-16$15.00/0.

PMID: 25568106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Acta Biomed. 2014 Dec 17;85(3):281-4.

A neuroleptic malignant-like syndrome (NMLS) in a patient with Parkinson's
disease resolved with rotigotine: a case report.

Fiore S(1), Persichino L, Anticoli S, De Pandis MF.

Author information: 
(1)INI Divisione Città Bianca, Casa di cura privata accreditata con il SSN, Via
Foiano, 4 - 03020 - Veroli (Fr), Italy. stefaniafiore2014@libero.it.

Neuroleptic Malignant-Like Syndrome (NMLS) is a rare, but potentially fatal
complication of dopaminergic therapy in Parkinson's disease due to a sudden
withdrawal of dopaminergic therapy. Here, we describe the case of a 79 years old 
woman, with 19 years history of Parkinson disease treated with L-dopa, dopamine
agonists and MAO inhibitors, whose sudden withdrawal due to lack of therapeutic
compliance, led to sudden onset of high fever, muscle rigidity, akinesia,
autonomic dysfunction, impaired level of consciousness, respiratory distress and 
dysphagia with inability to take oral dopaminergic therapy. High blood levels of 
CPK and myoglobinaemia were found. The patient was treated with transdermal
Rotigotine starting from a dose of 2 mg/24 hours, that was rapidly increased to 6
mg/24 hours, leading to resolution of the acute disturbances.

PMID: 25567468  [PubMed - in process]


870. Brain. 2015 Mar;138(Pt 3):664-78. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu381. Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Dopaminergic modulation of motor network dynamics in Parkinson's disease.

Michely J(1), Volz LJ(1), Barbe MT(2), Hoffstaedter F(3), Viswanathan S(2),
Timmermann L(4), Eickhoff SB(3), Fink GR(2), Grefkes C(5).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Neurology, Cologne University Hospital, Kerpener Str. 62,
50937 Cologne, Germany 2 Max Planck Institute for Neurological Research, Gleueler
Str. 50, 50931 Cologne, Germany. (2)1 Department of Neurology, Cologne University
Hospital, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937 Cologne, Germany 3 Institute of Neuroscience
and Medicine (INM-1, INM-3), Research Centre Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany. (3)3 
Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1, INM-3), Research Centre Jülich,
52425 Jülich, Germany 4 Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Medical
Psychology, Heinrich Heine University, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. (4)1 Department
of Neurology, Cologne University Hospital, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937 Cologne,
Germany. (5)1 Department of Neurology, Cologne University Hospital, Kerpener Str.
62, 50937 Cologne, Germany 2 Max Planck Institute for Neurological Research,
Gleueler Str. 50, 50931 Cologne, Germany 3 Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine
(INM-1, INM-3), Research Centre Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany
Christian.Grefkes@uk-koeln.de.

Although characteristic motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease such as
bradykinesia typically improve under dopaminergic medication, deficits in higher 
motor control are less responsive. We here investigated the dopaminergic
modulation of network dynamics underlying basic motor performance, i.e. finger
tapping, and higher motor control, i.e. internally and externally cued movement
preparation and selection. Twelve patients, assessed ON and OFF medication, and
12 age-matched healthy subjects underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging. 
Dynamic causal modelling was used to assess effective connectivity in a motor
network comprising cortical and subcortical regions. In particular, we
investigated whether impairments in basic and higher motor control, and the
effects induced by dopaminergic treatment are due to connectivity changes in (i) 
the mesial premotor loop comprising the supplementary motor area; (ii) the
lateral premotor loop comprising lateral premotor cortex; and (iii)
cortico-subcortical interactions. At the behavioural level, we observed a marked 
slowing of movement preparation and selection when patients were internally as
opposed to externally cued. Preserved performance during external cueing was
associated with enhanced connectivity between prefrontal cortex and lateral
premotor cortex OFF medication, compatible with a context-dependent compensatory 
role of the lateral premotor loop in the hypodopaminergic state. Dopaminergic
medication significantly improved finger tapping speed in patients, which
correlated with a drug-induced coupling increase of prefrontal cortex with the
supplementary motor area, i.e. the mesial premotor loop. In addition, only in the
finger tapping condition, patients ON medication showed enhanced excitatory
influences exerted by cortical premotor regions and the thalamus upon the
putamen. In conclusion, the amelioration of bradykinesia by dopaminergic
medication seems to be driven by enhanced connectivity within the mesial premotor
loop and cortico-striatal interactions. In contrast, medication did not improve
internal motor control deficits concurrent to missing effects at the connectivity
level. This differential effect of dopaminergic medication on the network
dynamics underlying motor control provides new insights into the clinical finding
that in Parkinson's disease dopaminergic drugs especially impact on bradykinesia 
but less on executive functions.

© The Author (2015). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Guarantors of Brain.

PMID: 25567321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Lancet Neurol. 2015 Feb;14(2):174-82. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(14)70321-7. Epub
2015 Jan 5.

Biological and clinical characteristics of the European Friedreich's Ataxia
Consortium for Translational Studies (EFACTS) cohort: a cross-sectional analysis 
of baseline data.

Reetz K(1), Dogan I(2), Costa AS(3), Dafotakis M(4), Fedosov K(4), Giunti P(5),
Parkinson MH(5), Sweeney MG(6), Mariotti C(7), Panzeri M(7), Nanetti L(7), Arpa
J(8), Sanz-Gallego I(8), Durr A(9), Charles P(9), Boesch S(10), Nachbauer W(10), 
Klopstock T(11), Karin I(12), Depondt C(13), vom Hagen JM(14), Schöls L(14),
Giordano IA(15), Klockgether T(15), Bürk K(16), Pandolfo M(13), Schulz JB(17).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische
Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, Aachen, Germany; Centre for Rare Diseases, University 
Hospital Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, Aachen,
Germany; JARA-Translational Brain Medicine, Jülich and Aachen, Germany; Institute
of Neuroscience and Medicine 4, Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische
Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, Aachen, Germany; JARA-Translational Brain Medicine,
Jülich and Aachen, Germany; Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine 4, Research
Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany. (3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital
Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, Aachen, Germany;
JARA-Translational Brain Medicine, Jülich and Aachen, Germany. (4)Department of
Neurology, University Hospital Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule
[RWTH], Aachen, Aachen, Germany. (5)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL
Institute of Neurology, London, UK. (6)Neurogenetics Unit, National Hospital for 
Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK. (7)Unit of Genetics of Neurodegenerative 
and Metabolic Diseases, Fondazione Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere
Scientifico, Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, Milan, Italy. (8)Reference Unit of
Hereditary Ataxias and Paraplegias, Department of Neurology, Instituto de
Investigación Sanitaria, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Department of Genetics,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France; Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle
épinière; Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U1127; Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique Unité mixte recherché 7225; Université
Pierre et Marie Curie Paris VI Unité mixte recherché S975, Paris, France.
(10)Department of Neurology, Medical University Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.
(11)Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Department of Neurology, University of Munich,
Munich, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich,
Germany. (12)Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Department of Neurology, University of
Munich, Munich, Germany. (13)Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, Université
Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium. (14)Department of Neurodegenerative
Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of Tübingen,
Tübingen, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen,
Germany. (15)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of Bonn, Bonn, Germany;
German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(16)Department of Neurology, Philipps University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(17)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Rheinisch-Westfälische
Technische Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, Aachen, Germany; Centre for Rare Diseases, 
University Hospital Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, 
Aachen, Germany; Clinical Trial Centre, University Hospital
Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule [RWTH], Aachen, Aachen, Germany;
JARA-Translational Brain Medicine, Jülich and Aachen, Germany. Electronic
address: jschulz@ukaachen.de.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2015 Feb;14(2):130-1.

BACKGROUND: Friedreich's ataxia is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative
disorder. Here we report cross-sectional baseline data to establish the
biological and clinical characteristics for a prospective, international,
European Friedreich's ataxia database registry.
METHODS: Within the European Friedreich's Ataxia Consortium for Translational
Studies (EFACTS) framework, we assessed a cohort of patients with genetically
confirmed Friedreich's ataxia. The primary outcome measure was the Scale for the 
Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA) and secondary outcome measures were the
Inventory of Non-Ataxia Signs (INAS), the performance-based coordination test
Spinocerebellar Ataxia Functional Index (SCAFI), the neurocognitive phonemic
verbal fluency test, and two quality-of-life measures: the activities of daily
living (ADL) part of the Friedreich's Ataxia Rating Scale and EQ-5D. The
Friedreich's ataxia cohort was subdivided into three groups: early disease onset 
(≤14 years), intermediate onset (15-24 years), and late onset (≥25 years), which 
were compared for clinical characteristics and outcome measures. We used linear
regression analysis to estimate the annual decline of clinical outcome measures
based on disease duration. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov,
number NCT02069509.
FINDINGS: We enrolled 592 patients with genetically confirmed Friedreich's ataxia
between Sept 15, 2010, and April 30, 2013, at 11 sites in seven European
countries. Age of disease onset was inversely correlated with the number of GAA
repeats in the frataxin (FXN) gene: every 100 GAA repeats on the smaller repeat
allele was associated with a 2·3 year (SE 0·2) earlier onset. Regression analyses
showed significant estimated annual worsening of SARA (regression coefficient
0·86 points [SE 0·05], INAS (0·14 points [0·01]), SCAFI Z scores (-0·09 [0·01]), 
verbal fluency (-0·34 words [0·07]), and ADL (0·64 points [0·04]) during the
first 25 years of disease; the regression slope for health-related
quality-of-life state from EQ-5D was not significant (-0·33 points [0·18]). For
SARA, the predicted annual rate of worsening was significantly higher in
early-onset patients (n=354; 1·04 points [0·13]) and intermediate-onset patients 
(n=137; 1·17 points [0·22]) than in late-onset patients (n=100; 0·56 points
[0·10]).
INTERPRETATION: The results of this cross-sectional baseline analysis of the
EFACTS cohort suggest that earlier disease onset is associated with larger
numbers of GAA repeats and more rapid disease progression. The differential
estimated progression of ataxia symptoms related to age of onset have
implications for the design of clinical trials in Friedreich's ataxia, for which 
SARA might be the most suitable measure to monitor disease progression.
FUNDING: European Commission.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25566998  [PubMed - in process]


872. Case Rep Neurol. 2014 Nov 26;6(3):275-80. doi: 10.1159/000369448. eCollection
2014.

Akinetic crisis in Parkinson's disease is associated with a severe loss of
striatal dopamine transporter function: a report of two cases.

Kaasinen V(1), Joutsa J(2), Noponen T(3), Päivärinta M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Turku and Turku University
Hospital, Turku, Finland ; Turku PET Centre, University of Turku and Turku
University Hospital, Turku, Finland. (2)Turku PET Centre, University of Turku and
Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland. (3)Department of Clinical Physiology
and Nuclear Medicine, University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, Turku,
Finland. (4)Visby Lasarett, Visby, Sweden.

Akinetic crisis or acute akinesia is a life-threatening complication of
Parkinson's disease (PD) with unknown pathophysiological mechanisms. Clinically, 
it resembles the neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and dopaminergic drugs are
transiently ineffective in the acute phase of the condition. There are no
published dopaminergic functional imaging studies on PD patients with akinetic
crisis. Here we report 2 advanced PD patients with akinetic crisis who were
scanned with SPECT using brain dopamine transporter ligand [(123)I]FP-CIT. The
first patient was additionally scanned before the condition developed, and the
second patient was scanned after recovery. Striatal dopamine transporter binding 
was lower during than before the crisis, and both patients showed a nearly
complete loss of dopamine transporter binding during the crisis. Serial imaging
showed that the uptake remained negligible despite an improvement in motor
function after recovery. Akinetic crisis in PD appears to be associated with a
particularly severe loss of presynaptic striatal dopamine function that does not 
improve after recovery. Apart from presynaptic dopaminergic function, other
dopaminergic or nondopaminergic mechanisms are involved in the clinical
improvement of motor functions after akinetic crisis in PD.

PMCID: PMC4280458
PMID: 25566059  [PubMed]


873. Front Neuroanat. 2014 Dec 18;8:159. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2014.00159. eCollection
2014.

Alpha-synuclein spreading in Parkinson's disease.

Recasens A(1), Dehay B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Vall d'Hebron Research Institute - 
Center for Networked Biomedical Research on Neurodegenerative Diseases Barcelona,
Spain. (2)Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, Université de Bordeaux, UMR
5293 Bordeaux, France ; Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, Centre National
de la Recherche Scientifique, UMR 5293 Bordeaux, France.

Formation and accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates are a central hallmark
of several neurodegenerative diseases. In Parkinson's disease (PD), the
aggregation-prone protein alpha-synuclein (α-syn) is the culprit. In the past few
years, another piece of the puzzle has been added with data suggesting that α-syn
may self-propagate, thereby contributing to the progression and extension of PD. 
Of particular importance, it was the seminal observation of Lewy bodies (LB), a
histopathological signature of PD, in grafted fetal dopaminergic neurons in the
striatum of PD patients. Consequently, these findings were a conceptual
breakthrough, generating the "host to graft transmission" hypothesis, also called
the "prion-like hypothesis." Several in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that
α-syn can undergo a toxic templated conformational change, spread from cell to
cell and from region to region, and initiate the formation of "LB-like
aggregates," contributing to the PD pathogenesis. Here, we will review and
discuss the current knowledge for such a putative mechanism on the prion-like
nature of α-syn, and discuss about the proper use of the term prion-like.

PMCID: PMC4270285
PMID: 25565982  [PubMed]


874. Neurol Sci. 2015 Jan 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical variables associated with treatment changes in Parkinson's disease:
results from the longitudinal phase of the REASON study.

Abbruzzese G(1), Barone P, Ceravolo R, Fabbrini G, Lessi P, Ori A, Simoni L,
Tinazzi M, Antonini A.

Author information: 
(1)DINOGMI, Centro Parkinson, Università degli Studi di Genova, Largo Daneo 3,
16132, Genoa, Italy, giabbr@unige.it.

To assess over a period of 9 months in a sample of Italian Parkinson's disease
(PD) patients reasons leading the neurologist to modify dopaminergic treatment
and patients' causes of dissatisfaction with ongoing therapy. To evaluate the
influence of disease severity on therapy persistence. A disease severity balanced
sample of PD patients with stable anti-parkinsonian drugs (APD) treatment was
enrolled and evaluated every 3 months. Patients requiring APD treatment
modifications were discontinued from the study. The probability to modify APD
treatment is greater for higher motor (UPDRS scores) and non-motor symptoms (NMSS
score) severity. Both from neurologist's and patient's perspective, motor
symptoms were the main determinants underlying APD treatment modifications.
Non-motor symptoms were cause of dissatisfaction with ongoing APD treatment for
52 % of the patients, while only 36 % of the neurologists considered these as
valid reasons for therapy change. REASON is the first study in PD patients that
prospectively examined reasons driving APD treatment changes. Results show that
the disease severity significantly increases the probability of APD treatment
change. Patients attribute greater relevance than neurologists to non-motor
symptoms as reason requiring treatment changes. This confirms that patient and
neurologist perceptions only partially overlap.

PMID: 25564417  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


875. PLoS Biol. 2015 Jan 6;13(1):e1002033. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1002033.
eCollection 2015.

Finding our way through phenotypes.

Deans AR(1), Lewis SE(2), Huala E(3), Anzaldo SS(4), Ashburner M(5), Balhoff
JP(6), Blackburn DC(7), Blake JA(8), Burleigh JG(9), Chanet B(10), Cooper LD(11),
Courtot M(12), Csösz S(13), Cui H(14), Dahdul W(15), Das S(16), Dececchi TA(15), 
Dettai A(10), Diogo R(17), Druzinsky RE(18), Dumontier M(19), Franz NM(4),
Friedrich F(20), Gkoutos GV(21), Haendel M(22), Harmon LJ(23), Hayamizu TF(24),
He Y(25), Hines HM(1), Ibrahim N(26), Jackson LM(15), Jaiswal P(11), James-Zorn
C(27), Köhler S(28), Lecointre G(10), Lapp H(6), Lawrence CJ(29), Le Novère
N(30), Lundberg JG(31), Macklin J(32), Mast AR(33), Midford PE(34), Mikó I(1),
Mungall CJ(2), Oellrich A(35), Osumi-Sutherland D(35), Parkinson H(35), Ramírez
MJ(36), Richter S(37), Robinson PN(38), Ruttenberg A(39), Schulz KS(40),
Segerdell E(41), Seltmann KC(42), Sharkey MJ(43), Smith AD(44), Smith B(45),
Specht CD(46), Squires RB(47), Thacker RW(48), Thessen A(49), Fernandez-Triana
J(50), Vihinen M(51), Vize PD(52), Vogt L(53), Wall CE(54), Walls RL(55),
Westerfeld M(56), Wharton RA(57), Wirkner CS(37), Woolley JB(57), Yoder MJ(58),
Zorn AM(27), Mabee P(15).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania, United States of America. (2)Genome Division, Lawrence Berkeley
National Lab, Berkeley, California, United States of America. (3)Department of
Plant Biology, Carnegie Institution for Science, Stanford, California, United
States of America; Phoenix Bioinformatics, Palo Alto, California, United States
of America. (4)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona,
United States of America. (5)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, United Kingdom. (6)National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, Durham,
North Carolina, United States of America. (7)Department of Vertebrate Zoology and
Anthropology, California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, California, United
States of America. (8)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, United States of
America. (9)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
United States of America. (10)Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle, Département
Systématique et Evolution, Paris, France. (11)Department of Botany and Plant
Pathology, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon, United States of America. 
(12)Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Department, Simon Fraser University,
Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. (13)MTA-ELTE-MTM, Ecology Research Group,
Pázmány Péter sétány 1C, Budapest, Hungary. (14)School of Information Resources
and Library Science, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, United States of
America. (15)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, South
Dakota, United States of America. (16)Department of Botany, University of Delhi, 
Delhi, India. (17)Department of Anatomy, Howard University College of Medicine,
Washington D.C., United States of America. (18)Department of Oral Biology,
College of Dentistry, University of Illinois, Chicago, Illinois, United States of
America. (19)Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford,
California, United States of America. (20)Biocenter Grindel and Zoological
Museum, Hamburg University, Hamburg, Germany. (21)Department of Computer Science,
Aberystwyth University, Aberystwyth, Ceredigion, United Kingdom. (22)Department
of Medical Informatics & Epidemiology, Oregon Health & Science University,
Portland, Oregon, United States of America. (23)Department of Biological
Sciences, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, United States of America. (24)Mouse
Genome Informatics, The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, United States of
America. (25)Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, and
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, United States of America. (26)Department of Organismal Biology and
Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(27)Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Division of Developmental Biology,
Cincinnati, Ohio, United States of America. (28)Institute for Medical Genetics
and Human Genetics, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(29)Department of Genetics, Development and Cell Biology and Department of
Agronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, United States of America.
(30)Signalling ISP, Babraham Institute, Babraham, Cambridgeshire, UK.
(31)Department of Ichthyology, The Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America. (32)Eastern Cereal and Oilseed Research
Centre, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (33)Department of Biological Science, Florida
State University, Tallahassee, Florida, United States of America. (34)Richmond,
Virginia, United States of America. (35)European Molecular Biology Laboratory -
European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, United 
Kingdom. (36)Division of Arachnology, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales -
CONICET, Buenos Aires, Argentina. (37)Allgemeine & Spezielle Zoologie, Institut
für Biowissenschaften, Universität Rostock, Universitätsplatz 2, Rostock,
Germany. (38)Institut für Medizinische Genetik und Humangenetik Charité -
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany. (39)School of Dental Medicine,
University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York, United States of America.
(40)Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of Natural History, Washington,
D.C., United States of America. (41)Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health &
Science University, Portland, Oregon, United States of America. (42)Division of
Invertebrate Zoology, American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York,
United States of America. (43)Department of Entomology, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, Kentucky, United States of America. (44)Department of Biological
Sciences, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, Arizona, United States of
America. (45)Department of Philosophy, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York, 
United States of America. (46)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology,
Integrative Biology, and the University and Jepson Herbaria, University of
California, Berkeley, California, United States of America. (47)Bioinformatics
and Computational Biosciences Branch, Office of Cyber Infrastructure and
Computational Biology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America.
(48)Department of Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama, United States of America. (49)The Data Detektiv, 1412 Stearns Hill Road,
Waltham, Massachusetts, United States of America. (50)Canadian National
Collection of Insects, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (51)Department of Experimental
Medical Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. (52)Department of Biological
Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (53)Universität Bonn, 
Institut für Evolutionsbiologie und Ökologie, Bonn, Germany. (54)Department of
Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States
of America. (55)iPlant Collaborative University of Arizona, Thomas J. Keating
Bioresearch Building, Tucson, Arizona, United States of America. (56)Institute of
Neuroscience, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon, United States of America.
(57)Department of Entomology, Texas A & M University, College, Station, Texas,
United States of America. (58)Illinois Natural History Survey, University of
Illinois, Champaign, Illinois, United States of America.

Despite a large and multifaceted effort to understand the vast landscape of
phenotypic data, their current form inhibits productive data analysis. The lack
of a community-wide, consensus-based, human- and machine-interpretable language
for describing phenotypes and their genomic and environmental contexts is perhaps
the most pressing scientific bottleneck to integration across many key fields in 
biology, including genomics, systems biology, development, medicine, evolution,
ecology, and systematics. Here we survey the current phenomics landscape,
including data resources and handling, and the progress that has been made to
accurately capture relevant data descriptions for phenotypes. We present an
example of the kind of integration across domains that computable phenotypes
would enable, and we call upon the broader biology community, publishers, and
relevant funding agencies to support efforts to surmount today's data barriers
and facilitate analytical reproducibility.

PMCID: PMC4285398
PMID: 25562316  [PubMed - in process]


876. Tremor Other Hyperkinet Mov (N Y). 2014 Dec 15;4:286. doi: 10.7916/D8H41Q4X.
eCollection 2014.

Comparable Botulinum Toxin Outcomes between Primary and Secondary Blepharospasm: 
A Retrospective Analysis.

Martinez-Ramirez D(1), Giugni JC(1), Hastings E(1), Wagle Shukla A(1), Malaty
IA(1), Okun MS(2), Rodriguez RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Center for Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. (2)Department of Neurology, Center
for Movement Disorders and Neurorestoration, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
FL, USA ; Department of Neurosurgery, Center for Movement Disorders and
Neurorestoration, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Blepharospasm is a focal cranial dystonia, which could be idiopathic 
in origin or secondary to an underlying disorder that commonly impairs quality of
life. Botulinum toxin (BoNT) injections have become the treatment of choice;
however, a less favorable response to BoNT is expected in secondary
blepharospasm. No studies have been conducted comparing outcomes between
blepharospasm cohorts. We therefore aim to compare BoNT outcomes in primary and
secondary blepharospasm subjects.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 64 blepharospasm subjects receiving BoNT
therapy was conducted. Demographics, BoNT treatment schedules, duration of BoNT
therapy, and side effects were recorded. Outcome measures were duration of
benefit, peak-dose benefit recorded with the Clinical Global Impressions Scale
(CGIS), and related side effects.
RESULTS: No difference was found between the two cohorts regarding duration of
benefit from treatment (primary 9.47 weeks vs. secondary 9.63 weeks, p = 0.88).
Perceived peak-dose benefit was more commonly reported as "very much improved" in
secondary patients, but this was not significant (p = 0.13). Higher BoNT dosages 
were required in both groups over time, with a mean increase of 20.5% in primary 
and 26.5% in secondary blepharospasm. Ptosis (8%) and diplopia (6%) were the most
common reported side effects. Mean follow-up in years was similar between groups,
3.6 years for primary vs. 2.4 years for secondary blepharospasm (p = 0.17).
DISCUSSION: BoNT injections were effective with comparable benefits seen in both 
primary and secondary blepharospasm populations. Clinicians should be aware of
the similar benefit from BoNT reported in secondary blepharospasm patients. The
average duration of benefit in this cohort was comparable with previous reports.

PMCID: PMC4266684
PMID: 25562037  [PubMed]


877. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2015 Jan;22(1):19-23. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2014.09.003. Epub
2014 Sep 6.

An overview on the correlation of neurological disorders with cardiovascular
disease.

Firoz CK(1), Jabir NR(1), Khan MS(2), Mahmoud M(1), Shakil S(3), Damanhouri
GA(1), Zaidi SK(4), Tabrez S(1), Kamal MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, P.O. Box 80216, 
Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia. (2)Protein Research Chair, Department of
Biochemistry, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Integral University, Kursi Road, Lucknow, UP
226026, India. (4)Center of Excellence in Genomic Medicine Research, King
Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.

Neurological disorders (NDs) are one of the leading causes of death especially in
the developed countries. Among those NDs, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson 
disease (PD) are heading the table. There have been several reports in the
scientific literatures which suggest the linkage between cardiovascular disorders
(CVDs) and NDs. In the present communication, we have tried to compile NDs (AD
and PD) association with CVDs reported in the literature. Based on the available 
scientific literature, we believe that further comprehensive study needs to be
done to elucidate the molecular linking points associated with the above
mentioned disorders.

PMCID: PMC4281592
PMID: 25561878  [PubMed]


878. Pract Neurol. 2015 Apr;15(2):148. doi: 10.1136/practneurol-2014-001043. Epub 2015
Jan 5.

The wrong James Parkinson.

Stott SR.

PMID: 25561574  [PubMed - in process]


879. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):221-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.009. Epub 2014 Dec 18.

Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with worse severity of Parkinson's
disease.

Tan AH(1), Mahadeva S(2), Marras C(3), Thalha AM(2), Kiew CK(1), Yeat CM(1), Ng
SW(1), Ang SP(1), Chow SK(1), Loke MF(4), Vadivelu JS(4), Ibrahim N(5), Yong
HS(6), Tan CT(1), Fox SH(3), Lang AE(3), Lim SY(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology and the Mah Pooi Soo & Tan Chin Nam Centre for
Parkinson's & Related Disorders, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Medicine (Division of Gastroenterology), University of Malaya,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (3)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Centre
and the Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease, Toronto Western Hospital,
Canada. (4)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Malaya, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia. (5)Department of Medicine (Division of Neurology), Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (6)Institute of Biological Sciences,
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (7)Division of Neurology and the
Mah Pooi Soo & Tan Chin Nam Centre for Parkinson's & Related Disorders,
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Electronic address:
limshenyang@ymail.com.

BACKGROUND: Some studies have suggested that chronic Helicobacter pylori (HP)
infection can aggravate the neurodegenerative process in Parkinson's disease
(PD), and targeted intervention could potentially modify the course of this
disabling disease. We aimed to study the impact of HP infection on motor
function, gastrointestinal symptoms, and quality of life in a large cohort of PD 
patients.
METHODS: 102 consecutive PD patients underwent (13)C urea breath testing and
blinded evaluations consisting of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
(UPDRS) including "On"-medication motor examination (Part III), objective and
quantitative measures of bradykinesia (Purdue Pegboard and timed gait), Leeds
Dyspepsia Questionnaire, and PDQ-39 (a health-related quality of life
questionnaire).
RESULTS: 32.4% of PD patients were HP-positive. HP-positive patients were older
(68.4 ± 7.3 vs. 63.8 ± 8.6 years, P = 0.009) and had worse motor function (UPDRS 
Part III 34.0 ± 13.0 vs. 27.3 ± 10.0, P = 0.04; Pegboard 6.4 ± 3.3 vs. 8.0 ± 2.7 
pins, P = 0.04; and timed gait 25.1 ± 25.4 vs. 15.5 ± 7.6 s, P = 0.08). In the
multivariate analysis, HP status demonstrated significant main effects on UPDRS
Part III and timed gait. The association between HP status and these motor
outcomes varied according to age. Gastrointestinal symptoms and PDQ-39 Summary
Index scores did not differ between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the largest cross-sectional study to demonstrate an
association between HP positivity and worse PD motor severity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25560322  [PubMed - in process]


880. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Mar;72(3):259-60. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4109.

Deep brain stimulation for Parkinson disease: the 2014 Lasker-DeBakey Clinical
Medical Research Award.

Rousseaux MW(1), Zoghbi HY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas2Jan and Dan Duncan Neurological Research Institute at Texas
Children's Hospital, Houston. (2)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas2Jan and Dan Duncan Neurological
Research Institute at Texas Children's Hospital, Houston3Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

PMID: 25560048  [PubMed - in process]


881. JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Mar;175(3):340. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.7183.

All my husband needed was a good physical examination.

Zimmerman S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Intersocietal Accreditation Commission, Ellicott City, Maryland.

PMID: 25559371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Mar;36(3):1600.e9-11. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.12.012. Epub 2014 Dec 13.

Assessment of RIT2 rs12456492 association with Parkinson's disease in Mainland
China.

Liu ZH(1), Guo JF(2), Wang YQ(1), Li K(1), Sun QY(3), Xu Q(3), Yan XX(3), Xu
CS(4), Tang BS(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha,
Hunan, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; State Key 
Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China;
Human Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Disorders, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; Neurodegenerative Disorders Research
Center, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha,
Hunan, People's Republic of China; Human Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative
Disorders, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China;
Neurodegenerative Disorders Research Center, Central South University, Changsha, 
Hunan, People's Republic of China. (4)Department of Neurology, Henan Provincial
People's Hospital, Zhengzhou, Henan, People's Republic of China. (5)Department of
Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's 
Republic of China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Changsha, Hunan,
People's Republic of China; Human Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Disorders, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China;
Neurodegenerative Disorders Research Center, Central South University, Changsha, 
Hunan, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: bstang7398@163.com.

A recent meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies in Parkinson's disease 
(PD) has identified the rs12456492 variant in RIT2 as a new susceptibility loci. 
Because the characteristics of this locus in a Han Chinese population from
mainland China was still unknown, we performed a case-control replication study
in this population and investigated RIT2 rs12456492 variant in a large cohort of 
Chinese Han individuals. In total, 933 subjects comprising 460 PD patients and
473 control subjects were genotyped. We found a significant difference in the
distributions of genotype and allele between PD and control groups (genotype p = 
0.008, allele p = 0.007, odds ratio = 1.296, 95% confidence interval =
1.075-1.563). This study replicates the association between rs12456492 variant
and risk of developing PD in a Han Chinese population.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25559334  [PubMed - in process]


883. Brain. 2015 Mar;138(Pt 3):679-93. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu380. Epub 2015 Jan 2.

Subthalamic stimulation modulates cortical motor network activity and
synchronization in Parkinson's disease.

Weiss D(1), Klotz R(2), Govindan RB(3), Scholten M(2), Naros G(4),
Ramos-Murguialday A(5), Bunjes F(6), Meisner C(7), Plewnia C(8), Krüger R(9),
Gharabaghi A(10).

Author information: 
(1)1 German Centre of Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 72076 Tübingen, Germany 
2 Department for Neurodegenerative Diseases and Hertie Institute for Clinical
Brain Research, University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 3 Werner
Reichardt Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, 72076 Tübingen, Germany
daniel.weiss@uni-tuebingen.de alireza.gharabaghi@uni-tuebingen.de. (2)1 German
Centre of Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 72076 Tübingen, Germany 2 Department
for Neurodegenerative Diseases and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 
University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 3 Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. (3)4 Foetal Medicine
Institute, Division of Foetal and Transitional Medicine, Children's National
Health System, M3118C Washington, DC, USA. (4)3 Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 5 Division of Functional and
Restorative Neurosurgery, Department of Neurosurgery, University of Tübingen,
72076 Tübingen, Germany. (5)6 Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioural
Neurobiology, University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 7 TECNALIA, Health 
Technologies, 200003 San Sebastian, Spain. (6)1 German Centre of
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 72076 Tübingen, Germany 2 Department for
Neurodegenerative Diseases and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research,
University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. (7)8 Clinical Epidemiology and
Applied Biometry, University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. (8)3 Werner
Reichardt Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 9
Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Neurophysiology & Interventional
Neuropsychiatry, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. (9)1 German Centre of Neurodegenerative
Diseases (DZNE), 72076 Tübingen, Germany 2 Department for Neurodegenerative
Diseases and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of
Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 3 Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 10 Clinical and Experimental Neuroscience, 
Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine (LCSB), University of Luxembourg and
Centre Hospitalier de Luxembourg (CHL), 1210 Luxembourg, Luxembourg. (10)3 Werner
Reichardt Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, 72076 Tübingen, Germany 5 Division
of Functional and Restorative Neurosurgery, Department of Neurosurgery,
University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany daniel.weiss@uni-tuebingen.de
alireza.gharabaghi@uni-tuebingen.de.

Dynamic modulations of large-scale network activity and synchronization are
inherent to a broad spectrum of cognitive processes and are disturbed in
neuropsychiatric conditions including Parkinson's disease. Here, we set out to
address the motor network activity and synchronization in Parkinson's disease and
its modulation with subthalamic stimulation. To this end, 20 patients with
idiopathic Parkinson's disease with subthalamic nucleus stimulation were analysed
on externally cued right hand finger movements with 1.5-s interstimulus interval.
Simultaneous recordings were obtained from electromyography on antagonistic
muscles (right flexor digitorum and extensor digitorum) together with 64-channel 
electroencephalography. Time-frequency event-related spectral perturbations were 
assessed to determine cortical and muscular activity. Next, cross-spectra in the 
time-frequency domain were analysed to explore the cortico-cortical
synchronization. The time-frequency modulations enabled us to select a
time-frequency range relevant for motor processing. On these time-frequency
windows, we developed an extension of the phase synchronization index to quantify
the global cortico-cortical synchronization and to obtain topographic
differentiations of distinct electrode sites with respect to their contributions 
to the global phase synchronization index. The spectral measures were used to
predict clinical and reaction time outcome using regression analysis. We found
that movement-related desynchronization of cortical activity in the upper alpha
and beta range was significantly facilitated with 'stimulation on' compared to
'stimulation off' on electrodes over the bilateral parietal, sensorimotor,
premotor, supplementary-motor, and prefrontal areas, including the bilateral
inferior prefrontal areas. These spectral modulations enabled us to predict both 
clinical and reaction time improvement from subthalamic stimulation. With
'stimulation on', interhemispheric cortico-cortical coherence in the beta band
was significantly attenuated over the bilateral sensorimotor areas. Similarly,
the global cortico-cortical phase synchronization was attenuated, and the
topographic differentiation revealed stronger desynchronization over the
(ipsilateral) right-hemispheric prefrontal, premotor and sensorimotor areas
compared to 'stimulation off'. We further demonstrated that the cortico-cortical 
phase synchronization was largely dominated by genuine neuronal coupling. The
clinical improvement with 'stimulation on' compared to 'stimulation off' could be
predicted from this cortical decoupling with multiple regressions, and the
reduction of synchronization over the right prefrontal area showed a linear
univariate correlation with clinical improvement. Our study demonstrates
wide-spread activity and synchronization modulations of the cortical motor
network, and highlights subthalamic stimulation as a network-modulating therapy. 
Accordingly, subthalamic stimulation may release bilateral cortical computational
resources by facilitating movement-related desynchronization. Moreover, the
subthalamic nucleus is critical to balance inhibitory and facilitatory cortical
players within the motor program.

© The Author (2015). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25558877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Ann Neurol. 2015 Mar;77(3):458-68. doi: 10.1002/ana.24346. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Defining neurodegeneration on Guam by targeted genomic sequencing.

Steele JC(1), Guella I, Szu-Tu C, Lin MK, Thompson C, Evans DM, Sherman HE,
Vilariño-Güell C, Gwinn K, Morris H, Dickson DW, Farrer MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Micronesian Health Study II, Tamuning, Guam.

OBJECTIVE: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/parkinsonism-dementia complex has been
described in Guam, Western Papua, and the Kii Peninsula of Japan. The etiology
and pathogenesis of this complex neurodegenerative disease remains enigmatic.
METHODS: In this study, we have used targeted genomic sequencing to evaluate the 
contribution of genetic variability in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, parkinsonism, and dementia in Guamanian Chamorros.
RESULTS: Genes previously linked to or associated with amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, parkinsonism, dementia, and related neurodegenerative syndromes were
sequenced in Chamorro subjects living in the Mariana Islands. Homozygous PINK1
p.L347P, heterozygous DCTN1 p.T54I, FUS p.P431L, and HTT (42 CAG repeats) were
identified as pathogenic mutations.
INTERPRETATION: The findings explain the clinical, pathologic, and genetic
heterogeneity observed in some multi-incident families and contribute to the
excess incidence of neurodegeneration previously reported on Guam.

© 2015 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 25558820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Isr Med Assoc J. 2014 Nov;16(11):723-4.

Screening for Gaucher disease: new challenges.

Zimran A, Altarescu G, Elstein D.

PMID: 25558704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Duodecim. 2014;130(18):1852-60.

[Effectiveness of music in brain rehabilitation. A systematic review].

[Article in Finnish]

Sihvonen AJ(1), Leo V, Särkämö T, Soinila S.

Author information: 
(1)Turun yliopiston.

There is no curative treatment for diseases causing brain injury. Music causes
extensive activation of the brain, promoting the repair of neural systems.
Addition of music listening to rehabilitation enhances the regulation or motor
functions in Parkinson and stroke patients, accelerates the recovery of speech
disorder and cognitive injuries after stroke, and decreases the behavioral
disorders of dementia patients. Music enhances the ability to concentrate and
decreases mental confusion. The effect of music can also be observed as
structural and functional changes of the brain. The effect is based, among other 
things, on lessening of physiologic stress and depression and on activation of
the dopaminergic mesolimbic system.

PMID: 25558627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Neural Regen Res. 2014 Nov 1;9(21):1917-22. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.145361.

Inhibition of Sirtuin 2 exerts neuroprotection in aging rats with increased
neonatal iron intake.

Wang X(1), Wang M(1), Yang L(1), Bai J(1), Yan Z(2), Zhang Y(3), Liu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xinhua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. (2)Shanghai Laboratory Animal
Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of Neurology,
Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.

Impaired iron homeostasis may cause damage to dopaminergic neurons and is
critically involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. At present, very 
little is understood about the effect of neonatal iron intake on behavior in
aging animals. Therefore, we hypothesized that increased neonatal iron intake
would result in significant behavior abnormalities and striatal dopamine
depletion during aging, and Sirtuin 2 contributes to the age-related
neurotoxicity. In the present study, we observed that neonatal iron intake (120
μg/g per day) during postnatal days 10-17 resulted in significant behavior
abnormalities and striatal dopamine depletion in aging rats. Furthermore, after
AK-7 (a selective Sirtuin 2 inhibitor) was injected into the substantia nigra at 
postnatal 540 days and 570 days (5 μg/side per day), striatal dopamine depletion 
was significantly diminished and behavior abnormality was improved in aging rats 
with neonatal iron intake. Experimental findings suggest that increased neonatal 
iron intake may result in Parkinson's disease-like neurochemical and behavioral
deficits with aging, and inhibition of Sirtuin 2 expression may be a
neuroprotective measure in Parkinson's disease.

PMCID: PMC4281432
PMID: 25558243  [PubMed]


888. Int J Yoga. 2015 Jan;8(1):74-9. doi: 10.4103/0973-6131.146070.

A randomized controlled pilot study of the therapeutic effects of yoga in people 
with Parkinson's disease.

Sharma NK(1), Robbins K(1), Wagner K(1), Colgrove YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science, University of
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.

BACKGROUND: Exercise can be beneficial for cardiopulmonary, musculoskeletal or
neurological systems, and other factors including mood, and may be beneficial in 
reducing fall risks, dementia and variables associated with quality of life
(QOL). Parkinson's disease (PD) produces progressive motor and cognitive
deterioration that may leave those inflicted unable to participate in standard
exercise programs. Alternative forms of exercise such as yoga may be successful
in improving physical function, QOL and physiological variables for overall
well-being.
AIM: This randomized controlled pilot study investigated the effectiveness of
yoga intervention on physiological and health-related QOL measures in people with
PD.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Thirteen people with stage 1-2 PD were randomized to
either a yoga (n = 8) or a control group (n = 5). The yoga group participated in 
twice-weekly yoga sessions for 12 weeks. Participants were tested at baseline,
and at 6 and 12 weeks using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS),
clinical measures of health-related QOL and physiological measures.
RESULTS: Significant improvement in UPDRS scores (P = .006), diastolic blood
pressure (P = 0.036) and average forced vital capacity (P = 0.03) was noted in
the yoga group over time. Changes between groups were also noted in two SF-36
subscales. Positive trends of improvement were noted in depression scores (P =
0.056), body weight (P = 0.056) and forced expiratory volume (P = 0.059). Yoga
participants reported more positive symptom changes including immediate tremor
reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that yoga may improve aspects of QOL and
physiological functions in stages 1-2 PD. Future larger studies are needed to
confirm and extend our findings of the effects of yoga in PD.

PMCID: PMC4278140
PMID: 25558138  [PubMed]


889. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):189-93. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.019. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Anxiety in Parkinson's disease: Symptom dimensions and overlap with depression
and autonomic failure.

Rutten S(1), Ghielen I(2), Vriend C(3), Hoogendoorn AW(2), Berendse HW(4),
Leentjens AF(5), van der Werf YD(6), Smit JH(7), van den Heuvel OA(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Department of Anatomy & Neurosciences, VU University Medical Centre,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, VU
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
s.rutten@vumc.nl. (2)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical Centre,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical
Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Anatomy & Neurosciences, VU
University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus
Amsterdam, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department
of Neurology, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Department of Neurology, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands. (5)Department of Psychiatry, Maastricht University Medical
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands. (6)Department of Anatomy & Neurosciences, VU
University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus
Amsterdam, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Netherlands 
Institute for Neuroscience, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (7)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical
Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, 
VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (8)Department of
Psychiatry, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department 
of Anatomy & Neurosciences, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University Medical Centre,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Anxiety disorders are highly prevalent in patients with Parkinson's
disease (PD) and have a major impact on wellbeing. They nevertheless receive
limited scientific attention. This study aimed to establish the symptom
dimensions of anxiety in PD, and their relationship with depression, autonomic
failure and motor symptoms.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional observational study, symptoms of anxiety were
measured with the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) in 294 PD patients. Symptom
dimensions of anxiety in PD were explored through principal component analysis
(PCA) of BAI items. The relationship between anxiety and depressive, autonomic
and motor symptoms was assessed through PCA and regression analyses.
RESULTS: Clinically relevant symptoms of anxiety were present in 45% of patients.
PCA of the BAI resulted in five subscales, corresponding to a single affective
and four somatic symptom dimensions (thermoregulation, hypotension,
hyperventilation and trembling) of anxiety. Symptoms of anxiety and depression
displayed a large overlap. All somatic BAI subscales were significantly
influenced by motor and autonomic symptoms, while the affective subscale was not.
CONCLUSION: Anxiety in PD comprises affective and somatic symptom dimensions. The
affective subscale of the BAI is not influenced by motor or autonomic symptoms,
and may therefore prove useful for future research. Scores on the somatic
subscales of the BAI were associated with autonomic failure and motor impairment,
demonstrating a strong interplay between motor and non-motor symptoms in PD.
These results stress the importance of a holistic approach of anxiety in PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25557888  [PubMed - in process]


890. Complement Ther Clin Pract. 2015 Feb;21(1):47-51. doi:
10.1016/j.ctcp.2014.12.002. Epub 2014 Dec 13.

Is Irish set dancing feasible for people with Parkinson's disease in Ireland?

Shanahan J(1), Morris ME(2), Bhriain ON(3), Volpe D(4), Richardson M(5), Clifford
AM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Therapies, Faculty of Education and Health Sciences,
University of Limerick, Co. Limerick, Ireland. Electronic address:
joanne.s@outlook.com. (2)Department of Physiotherapy, School of Allied Health, La
Trobe University, Bundoora 3086, Australia. (3)Irish World Academy of Music and
Dance, Department of Arts Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Limerick,
Co. Limerick, Ireland. (4)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Casa di Cura Villa
Margherita, Vicenza, Italy. (5)Department of Neurology, University College
Hospital, Limerick, Ireland. (6)Department of Clinical Therapies, Faculty of
Education and Health Sciences, University of Limerick, Co. Limerick, Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate if community-based Irish set dancing is feasible in
Irish adults with Parkinson's disease.
METHODS: Over an eight week period, ten participants attended one set dancing
class per week and completed a home programme in parallel. Feasibility was
assessed by monitoring adverse effects, participants' verbal feedback, compliance
rates and feedback from an exit questionnaire. Participants were assessed using
the Berg balance scale, 6-min walk test, UPDRS-3 and PDQ-39, before and after the
intervention.
RESULTS: No adverse effects were detected. Attendance at classes was 86%.
Compliance with the home programme was 67%. Findings from the exit questionnaire 
showed participants enjoyed participating and reported improvements in aspects of
health including balance. Quality of life improved with the dance programme and
there was a trend toward improvement on the UPDRS-3.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest community-based Irish set dancing is a
feasible form of exercise that can positively influence quality of life.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25557584  [PubMed - in process]


891. J Am Coll Radiol. 2015 Jan;12(1):19-28. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2014.09.025.

ACR Appropriateness Criteria Dementia and Movement Disorders.

Wippold FJ 2nd(1), Brown DC(2), Broderick DF(3), Burns J(4), Corey AS(5),
Deshmukh TK(6), Douglas AC(7), Holloway K(8), Jagadeesan BD(9), Jurgens JS(10),
Kennedy TA(11), Patel ND(12), Perlmutter JS(13), Rosenow JM(14), Slavin K(15),
Subramaniam RM(16).

Author information: 
(1)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, St Louis, Missouri. Electronic address:
wippoldf@wustl.edu. (2)Hampton Roads Radiology Associates, Norfolk, Virginia.
(3)Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida. (4)Montefiore Medical Center,
Bronx, New York. (5)Emory Universtiy, Atlanta, Georgia. (6)Children's Hospital of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. (7)Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, Indiana. (8)MCVH-Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond,
Virginia; American Association of Neurological Surgeons, Rolling Meadows,
Illinois; Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Schaumburg, Illinois. (9)University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. (10)Walter Reed National Military Medical
Center, Bethesda, Maryland; Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging,
Reston, Virginia. (11)University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinic, Madison,
Wisconsin. (12)Fairfax Radiology Consultants PC, Fairfax, Virginia.
(13)Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri; American Academy of
Neurology, Minneapolis, Minnesota. (14)American Association of Neurological
Surgeons, Rolling Meadows, Illinois; Congress of Neurological Surgeons,
Schaumburg, Illinois; Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, Illinois. (15)American Association of Neurological Surgeons, Rolling
Meadows, Illinois; Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Schaumburg, Illinois; UIC
Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois. (16)The Johns Hopkins Medical Institution,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Neurodegenerative disease, including dementia, extrapyramidal degeneration, and
motor system degeneration, is a growing public health concern and is quickly
becoming one of the top health care priorities of developed nations. The primary 
function of anatomic neuroimaging studies in evaluating patients with dementia or
movement disorders is to rule out structural causes that may be reversible. Lack 
of sensitivity and specificity of many neuroimaging techniques applied to a
variety of neurodegenerative disorders has limited the role of neuroimaging in
differentiating types of neurodegenerative disorders encountered in everyday
practice. Nevertheless, neuroimaging is a valuable research tool and has provided
insight into the structure and function of the brain in patients with
neurodegenerative disorders. Advanced imaging techniques, such as functional
neuroimaging with MRI and MR spectroscopy, hold exciting investigative potential 
for better understanding of neurodegenerative disorders, but they are not
considered routine clinical practice at this time. The ACR Appropriateness
Criteria are evidence-based guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are 
reviewed every 3 years by a multidisciplinary expert panel. The guideline
development and review include an extensive analysis of current medical
literature from peer-reviewed journals and the application of a well-established 
consensus methodology (modified Delphi) to rate the appropriateness of imaging
and treatment procedures by the panel. In those instances in which evidence is
lacking or not definitive, expert opinion may be used to recommend imaging or
treatment.

Copyright © 2015 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25557568  [PubMed - in process]


892. J Neurosci Res. 2015 May;93(5):722-35. doi: 10.1002/jnr.23535. Epub 2014 Dec 29.

PINK1 phosphorylates transglutaminase 2 and blocks its proteasomal degradation.

Min B(1), Kwon YC, Choe KM, Chung KC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Biology, College of Life Science and Biotechnology,
Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive dopaminergic neuronal
loss and the formation of abnormal protein aggregates, referred to as Lewy bodies
(LBs). PINK1 is a serine/threonine protein kinase that protects cells from
stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. PINK1 gene mutations cause one form of 
autosomal recessive early-onset PD. Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) is an intracellular 
protein cross-linking enzyme that has an important role in LB formation during PD
pathogenesis. This study identifies PINK1 as a novel TG2 binding partner and
shows that PINK1 stabilizes the half-life of TG2 via inhibition of TG2
ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. PINK1 affects TG2
stability in a kinase-dependent manner. In addition, PINK1 directly
phosphorylates TG2 in carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazine-induced
mitochondrial damaged states, thereby enhancing TG2 accumulation and
intracellular protein cross-linking products. This study further confirms the
functional link between upstream PINK1 and downstream TG2 in Drosophila
melanogaster. These data suggest that PINK1 positively regulates TG2 activity,
which may be closely associated with aggresome formation in neuronal cells.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25557247  [PubMed - in process]


893. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2014;15(23):10137-42.

An in silico appraisal to identify high affinity anti-apoptotic synthetic
tetrapeptide inhibitors targeting the mammalian caspase 3 enzyme.

Kelotra S(1), Jain M, Kelotra A, Jain I, Bandaru S, Nayarisseri A, Bidwai A.

Author information: 
(1)M.B Khalsa College, Indore, India E-mail : seemakelotra@gmail.com.

Apoptosis is a general phenomenon of all multicellular organisms and caspases
form a group of important proteins central to suicide of cells. Pathologies like 
cancer, Myocardial infarction, Stroke, Sepsis, Alzheimer's, Psoriasis, Parkinson 
and Huntington diseases are often associated with change in caspase 3 mediated
apoptosis and therefore, caspases may serve as potential inhibitory targets for
drug development. In the present study, two series of synthetic acetylated
tetrapeptides containing aldehyde and fluromethyl keto groups respectively at the
C terminus were proposed. All these compounds were evaluated for binding affinity
against caspase 3 structure. In series 1 compound Ac-DEHD-CHO demonstrated
appreciable and high binding affinity (Rerank Score: -138.899) against caspase 3.
While in series 2 it was Ac-WEVD-FMK which showed higher binding affinity (Rerank
Score: -139.317). Further these two compounds met ADMET properties and
demonstrated to be non- toxic.

PMID: 25556438  [PubMed - in process]


894. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2015 Mar;14(3):544-55. doi: 10.1074/mcp.M114.040576. Epub
2015 Jan 2.

Cerebrospinal fluid peptides as potential Parkinson disease biomarkers: a staged 
pipeline for discovery and validation.

Shi M(1), Movius J(1), Dator R(1), Aro P(1), Zhao Y(1), Pan C(1), Lin X(2),
Bammler TK(3), Stewart T(1), Zabetian CP(4), Peskind ER(5), Hu SC(4), Quinn
JF(6), Galasko DR(7), Zhang J(8).

Author information: 
(1)From the ‡Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98104; (2)From the ‡Department of Pathology,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98104; §School
of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, Fujian
350002, China; (3)¶Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195; (4)‖Geriatric and
Parkinson's Disease Research, Education, and Clinical Centers, Veterans Affairs
Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, Washington 98108; **Department of
Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington
98195; (5)‡‡Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195; §§Mental Illness
Research, Education, and Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health
Care System, Seattle, Washington 98108; (6)¶¶Department of Neurology, Oregon
Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon 97239; (7)‖‖Department of
Neurosciences, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093.
(8)From the ‡Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98104; zhangj@u.washington.edu.

Finding robust biomarkers for Parkinson disease (PD) is currently hampered by
inherent technical limitations associated with imaging or antibody-based protein 
assays. To circumvent the challenges, we adapted a staged pipeline, starting from
our previous proteomic profiling followed by high-throughput targeted mass
spectrometry (MS), to identify peptides in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for PD
diagnosis and disease severity correlation. In this multicenter study consisting 
of training and validation sets, a total of 178 subjects were randomly selected
from a retrospective cohort, matching age and sex between PD patients, healthy
controls, and neurological controls with Alzheimer disease (AD). From ∼14,000
unique peptides displaying differences between PD and healthy control in
proteomic investigations, 126 peptides were selected based on relevance and
observability in CSF using bioinformatic analysis and MS screening, and then
quantified by highly accurate and sensitive selected reaction monitoring (SRM) in
the CSF of 30 PD patients versus 30 healthy controls (training set), followed by 
diagnostic (receiver operating characteristics) and disease severity correlation 
analyses. The most promising candidates were further tested in an independent
cohort of 40 PD patients, 38 AD patients, and 40 healthy controls (validation
set). A panel of five peptides (derived from SPP1, LRP1, CSF1R, EPHA4, and TIMP1)
was identified to provide an area under curve (AUC) of 0.873 (sensitivity =
76.7%, specificity = 80.0%) for PD versus healthy controls in the training set.
The performance was essentially confirmed in the validation set (AUC = 0.853,
sensitivity = 82.5%, specificity = 82.5%). Additionally, this panel could also
differentiate the PD and AD groups (AUC = 0.990, sensitivity = 95.0%, specificity
= 97.4%). Furthermore, a combination of two peptides belonging to proteins TIMP1 
and APLP1 significantly correlated with disease severity as determined by the
Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor scores in both the training (r =
0.381, p = 0.038)j and the validation (r = 0.339, p = 0.032) sets. The novel
panel of CSF peptides, if validated in independent cohorts, could be used to
assist in clinical diagnosis of PD and has the potential to help monitoring or
predicting disease progression.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4349976 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25556233  [PubMed - in process]


895. J Biol Chem. 2015 Feb 20;290(8):5117-26. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.592931. Epub 2015 
Jan 2.

Prolyl oligopeptidase enhances α-synuclein dimerization via direct
protein-protein interaction.

Savolainen MH(1), Yan X(2), Myöhänen TT(1), Huttunen HJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, University of Helsinki,
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland and. (2)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki,
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland. (3)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki,
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland Henri.Huttunen@helsinki.fi.

Prolyl oligopeptidase (PREP) accelerates the aggregation of α-synuclein (aSyn), a
key protein involved in development of Parkinson disease and other
synucleinopathies. PREP inhibitors reduce aSyn aggregation, but the mechanism has
remained unknown. We have now used protein-fragment complementation assays (PCA) 
and microscale thermophoresis in parallel to show that PREP interacts directly
with aSyn in both intact cells and in a cell-free system. Using split
luciferase-based PCA, we first showed that PREP enhances the formation of soluble
aSyn dimers in live Neuro-2A neuroblastoma cells. A PREP inhibitor, KYP-2047,
reduced aSyn dimerization in PREP-expressing cells but not in cells lacking PREP 
expression. aSyn dimerization was also enhanced by PREP(S554A), an enzymatically 
inactive PREP mutant, but this was not affected by KYP-2047. PCA and microscale
thermophoresis studies showed that aSyn interacts with both PREP and PREP(S554A) 
with low micromolar affinity. Neither the proline-rich, C-terminal domain of aSyn
nor the hydrolytic activity of PREP was required for the interaction with PREP.
Our results show that PREP binds directly to aSyn to enhance its dimerization and
may thus serve as a nucleation point for aSyn aggregation. Native gel analysis
showed that KYP-2047 shifts PREP to a compact monomeric form with reduced ability
to promote aSyn nucleation. As PREP inhibition also enhances autophagic clearance
of aSyn, PREP inhibitors may reduce accumulation of aSyn inclusions via a dual
mechanism and are thus a novel therapeutic candidate for synucleinopathies. Our
results also suggest that PREP has other cellular functions in addition to its
peptidase activity.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4335246 [Available on 2016-02-20]
PMID: 25555914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


896. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Feb 15;349(1-2):3-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2014.12.017. Epub 2014
Dec 18.

Epigenetic mechanisms in Parkinson's disease.

Feng Y(1), Jankovic J(2), Wu YC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Shanghai First People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200080, PR China. (2)Parkinson's Disease 
Center and Movement Disorders Clinic, Department of Neurology, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, Shanghai First
People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai
200080, PR China. Electronic address: yunchw@medmail.com.cn.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common age-related neurodegenerative 
disease, but its pathogenesis is not fully understood. The selective neuronal
cell death in PD has been considered to result from a complex interaction between
genetic and environmental factors, but the nature of the relationship between the
two chief modifiers remains to be elucidated. There is a growing body of evidence
supporting the role of epigenetics in the development and progression of many
neurodegenerative diseases including PD. Epigenetic modification refers to
changes in gene expression or function without changes in DNA sequence, which
mainly includes DNA methylation, post-modifications of histone, and non-coding
RNAs. In this review, we will focus on the abnormal epigenetic modifications
involved in the pathogenesis of PD and their implications for the development of 
future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25553963  [PubMed - in process]


897. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2015 Jan 1;20:491-501.

Functions and characteristics of PINK1 and Parkin in cancer.

Matsuda S(1), Nakanishi A(1), Minami A(1), Wada Y(1), Kitagishi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Nara Women's University, Kita-Uoya
Nishimachi, Nara 630-8506, Japan.

Most of the Parkinson disease (PD) linked genes are also associated with cancers.
In particular, phosphatase and tensin homologue-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) and
Parkin, both of which are involved in recessively inherited familial forms of PD 
linked to mitochondrial dysfunction, appear to be abnormally expressed in
cancers. Functional studies have revealed that PINK1 recruits Parkin to
mitochondria to initiate mitophagy, an important autophagic quality control
mechanism that rids the cell of damaged mitochondria. Although PD and cancer are 
obviously disparate human disorders, there is an evidence for low cancer rates in
patients with PD. The relationship between cancer rates and PD might be related
to the involvement of common pathways in both diseases. This paper provides a
concise overview on the cellular functions of the PINK1 and Parkin.

PMID: 25553463  [PubMed - in process]


898. J Neurosci Rural Pract. 2015 Jan;6(1):65-76. doi: 10.4103/0976-3147.143197.

Psychiatric aspects of Parkinson's disease.

Grover S(1), Somaiya M(1), Kumar S(1), Avasthi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research, Chandigarh, India.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is essentially characterized by the motor symptoms in
the form of resting tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia. However, over the years it
has been recognized that motor symptoms are just the "tip of the iceberg" of
clinical manifestations of PD. Besides motor symptoms, PD characterized by many
non-motor symptoms, which include cognitive decline, psychiatric disturbances
(depression, psychosis and impulse control), sleep difficulties, autonomic
failures (gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, urinary, thermoregulation) and pain
syndrome. This review evaluates the various aspects of psychiatric disorders
including cognitive decline and sleep disturbances in patients with PD. The
prevalence rate of various psychiatric disorders is high in patients with PD. In 
terms of risk factors, various demographic, clinical and treatment-related
variables have been shown to be associated with higher risk of development of
psychiatric morbidity. Evidence also suggests that the presence of psychiatric
morbidity is associated with poorer outcome. Randomized controlled trials,
evaluating the various pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments for
management of psychiatric morbidity in patients with PD are meager. Available
evidence suggests that tricyclic antidepressants like desipramine and
nortriptyline are efficacious for management of depression. Among the
antipsychotics, clozapine is considered to be the best choice for management of
psychosis in patients with PD. Among the various cognitive enhancers, evidence
suggest efficacy of rivastigmine in management of dementia in patients with PD.
To conclude, this review suggests that psychiatric morbidity is highly prevalent 
in patients with PD. Hence, a multidisciplinary approach must be followed to
improve the overall outcome of PD. Further studies are required to evaluate the
efficacy of various other measures for management of psychiatric morbidity in
patients with PD.

PMCID: PMC4244792
PMID: 25552854  [PubMed]


899. J Neurosci Rural Pract. 2015 Jan;6(1):33-8. doi: 10.4103/0976-3147.143187.

RBC acetyl cholinesterase: A poor man's early diagnostic biomarker for familial
alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease dementia.

Bawaskar HS(1), Bawaskar PH(2), Bawaskar PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Medicine, Bawaskar Hospital and Clinical Research
Center, Mahad, Maharashtra, India. (2)Department of Medicine, BYL NAIR Hospital
and Topiwala Medical College, Mumbai, India.

OBJECTIVE: Analysis of red blood cell acetyl cholinesterase (AChE) in a familial 
Alzheimer's diseases (AD) Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) and their first
generation.
SETTING: General hospital, Mahad district, Raigad.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Clinically diagnosed patients of AD and PDD and their
asymptomatic relatives. Their blood was collected in EDTA tube and transferred to
laboratory at Mumbai.
RESULT: Median red blood cell (RBC) cholinesterase levels amongst PDD, their
first generation asymptomatic relatives, familial AD, asymptomatic relatives of
AD, healthy controls, farmers exposed to pesticides (positive control) and other 
neurological condition without dementia (hypertension with TIA 1, sub-dural
hematoma 2, hypothyroid 1, non-familial unilateral parkinsonism without dementia 
3, writers cramps 2, hyponitremia 1 and cerebral palsy with non-fluent aphasia
1). Median values of RBC AChE were 19086.78 U/L, 15666.05 U/L, 9013.11 U/L,
7806.19 U/L, 14334.57 U/L, 9785.05 U/L and 13162.60 U/L, respectively. As
compared to controls, RBC AChE levels were statistically significant among PDD (P
= 0.004) and significantly lowered among familial AD patients (P = 0.010),
relatives of patients (P = 0.010).
INTERPRETATIONS: Below the normal RBC AChE level is a potential biomarker in
asymptomatic relatives of familial AD patients. RBC AChE is raised than normal
level in patients suffering from PDD, where AChE inhibitors are helpful. However,
RBC AChE level below the normal where AChE inhibitor may not be effective.

PMCID: PMC4244785
PMID: 25552849  [PubMed]


900. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Mar 15;113(6):1697-711. doi: 10.1152/jn.00752.2014. Epub
2014 Dec 30.

Nigral dopamine loss induces a global upregulation of presynaptic dopamine D1
receptor facilitation of the striatonigral GABAergic output.

Ding S(1), Li L(1), Zhou FM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Tennessee College of Medicine,
Memphis, Tennessee. (2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Tennessee
College of Medicine, Memphis, Tennessee fzhou3@uthsc.edu.

In Parkinson's disease (PD), the dopamine (DA) neuron loss in the substantia
nigra and the DA axon loss in the dorsal striatum are severe, but DA neurons in
the ventral tegmental area and DA axons in middle and ventral striatal subregions
are less affected. Severe DA loss leads to DA receptor supersensitivity, but it
was not known whether the supersensitivity of the DA D1 receptors (D1Rs) on the
striatonigral axon terminal is determined by the severe striatal or nigral DA
loss. This question is important because these two possibilities affect the
extent of the striatonigral terminals with supersensitive D1Rs and hence the
strength of the direct pathway output. Here we have investigated this question in
the transcription factor Pitx3 mutant mice that have a PD-like DA loss pattern.
We found that the presynaptic D1R function was upregulated globally: the
D1R-mediated facilitation was equally enhanced for the striatonigral GABA output 
originated in the dorsal striatum where the DA loss is severe and the somatic
D1Rs are supersensitive, and for the striatonigral GABA output originated in the 
middle and ventral striatum where the DA loss is moderate and the somatic D1Rs
are not supersensitive. These results suggest that severe nigral DA loss is
sufficient to induce functional upregulation of the D1Rs on striatonigral axon
terminals. Consequently, in PD, the globally enhanced D1Rs on striatonigral axon 
terminals originated in broad striatal subregions may strongly enhance the
striatonigral GABA output upon D1R stimulation, potentially contributing to D1R
agonism's profound motor-stimulating effects.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

PMCID: PMC4359993 [Available on 2016-03-15]
PMID: 25552639  [PubMed - in process]


901. Neurology. 2015 Jan 20;84(3):304-12. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001155. Epub 2014
Dec 31.

Exercise for falls prevention in Parkinson disease: a randomized controlled
trial.

Canning CG(1), Sherrington C(2), Lord SR(2), Close JC(2), Heritier S(2), Heller
GZ(2), Howard K(2), Allen NE(2), Latt MD(2), Murray SM(2), O'Rourke SD(2), Paul
SS(2), Song J(2), Fung VS(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Clinical and Rehabilitation Sciences Research Group, Faculty of
Health Sciences (C.G.C., N.E.A., S.M.M., S.D.O., J.S.), The George Institute for 
Global Health, Sydney Medical School (C.S., S.S.P.), Sydney School of Public
Health (K.H.), and Sydney Medical School (S.H., V.S.C.F.), The University of
Sydney, Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia and University of New South
Wales (S.R.L.), Sydney; Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South 
Wales, and Neuroscience Research Australia (J.C.T.C.), Sydney; Department of
Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine (S.H.), Monash University, Melbourne;
Department of Statistics (G.Z.H.), Macquarie University, and Statistics Division,
The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney; Department of Aged Care (M.D.L.),
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney; and Movement Disorders Unit (V.S.C.F.),
Department of Neurology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
colleen.canning@sydney.edu.au. (2)From the Clinical and Rehabilitation Sciences
Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences (C.G.C., N.E.A., S.M.M., S.D.O.,
J.S.), The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney Medical School (C.S.,
S.S.P.), Sydney School of Public Health (K.H.), and Sydney Medical School (S.H., 
V.S.C.F.), The University of Sydney, Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia
and University of New South Wales (S.R.L.), Sydney; Prince of Wales Clinical
School, University of New South Wales, and Neuroscience Research Australia
(J.C.T.C.), Sydney; Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine (S.H.),
Monash University, Melbourne; Department of Statistics (G.Z.H.), Macquarie
University, and Statistics Division, The George Institute for Global Health,
Sydney; Department of Aged Care (M.D.L.), Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney;
and Movement Disorders Unit (V.S.C.F.), Department of Neurology, Westmead
Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether falls can be prevented with minimally supervised 
exercise targeting potentially remediable fall risk factors, i.e., poor balance, 
reduced leg muscle strength, and freezing of gait, in people with Parkinson
disease.
METHODS: Two hundred thirty-one people with Parkinson disease were randomized
into exercise or usual-care control groups. Exercises were practiced for 40 to 60
minutes, 3 times weekly for 6 months. Primary outcomes were fall rates and
proportion of fallers during the intervention period. Secondary outcomes were
physical (balance, mobility, freezing of gait, habitual physical activity),
psychological (fear of falling, affect), and quality-of-life measures.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between groups in the rate of falls 
(incidence rate ratio [IRR] = 0.73, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.45-1.17, p =
0.18) or proportion of fallers (p = 0.45). Preplanned subgroup analysis revealed 
a significant interaction for disease severity (p < 0.001). In the lower disease 
severity subgroup, there were fewer falls in the exercise group compared with
controls (IRR = 0.31, 95% CI 0.15-0.62, p < 0.001), while in the higher disease
severity subgroup, there was a trend toward more falls in the exercise group (IRR
= 1.61, 95% CI 0.86-3.03, p = 0.13). Postintervention, the exercise group scored 
significantly (p < 0.05) better than controls on the Short Physical Performance
Battery, sit-to-stand, fear of falling, affect, and quality of life, after
adjusting for baseline performance.
CONCLUSIONS: An exercise program targeting balance, leg strength, and freezing of
gait did not reduce falls but improved physical and psychological health. Falls
were reduced in people with milder disease but not in those with more severe
Parkinson disease.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class III evidence that for
patients with Parkinson disease, a minimally supervised exercise program does not
reduce fall risk. This study lacked the precision to exclude a moderate reduction
or modest increase in fall risk from exercise.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
(ACTRN12608000303347).

© 2014 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4335992 [Available on 2015-07-20]
PMID: 25552576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Am J Epidemiol. 2015 Feb 1;181(3):185-90. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwu326. Epub 2014 Dec 
29.

Validation of secondary data sources to identify Parkinson disease against
clinical diagnostic criteria.

Jain S, Himali J, Beiser A, Ton TG, Kelly-Hayes M, Biggs ML, Delaney JA, Rosano
C, Seshadri S, Frank SA.

Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder. Its 
diagnosis relies solely on a clinical examination and is not straightforward
because no diagnostic test exists. Large, population-based, prospective cohort
studies designed to examine other outcomes that are more common than PD might
provide cost-efficient alternatives for studying the disease. However, most
cohort studies have not implemented rigorous systematic screening for PD. A
majority of epidemiologic studies that utilize population-based prospective
designs rely on secondary data sources to identify PD cases. Direct validation of
these secondary sources against clinical diagnostic criteria is lacking. The
Framingham Heart Study has prospectively screened and evaluated participants for 
PD based on clinical diagnostic criteria. We assessed the predictive value of
secondary sources for PD identification relative to clinical diagnostic criteria 
in the Framingham Heart Study (2001-2012). We found positive predictive values of
1.0 (95% confidence interval: 0.868, 1.0), 1.0 (95% confidence interval: 0.839,
1.0), and 0.50 (95% confidence interval: 0.307, 0.694) for PD identified from
self-report, use of antiparkinsonian medications, and Medicare claims,
respectively. The negative predictive values were all higher than 0.99. Our
results highlight the limitations of using only Medicare claims data and suggest 
that population-based cohorts may be utilized for the study of PD determined via 
self-report or medication inventories while preserving a high degree of
confidence in the validity of PD case identification.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMCID: PMC4312428 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25550359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):184-8. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.10.009. Epub 2014 Oct 18.

Exploring determinants of progression in Parkinson's disease. Is there a
difference among Jewish ethnic groups?

Orlev Y(1), Yahalom G(2), Cohen OS(2), Elincx-Benizri S(3), Kozlova E(3),
Inzelberg R(2), Goldbourt U(4), Hassin-Baer S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Institute, Sagol Neuroscience Center 
and Department of Neurology, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Ramat Gan,
Israel; Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, 
Tel-Aviv, Israel. (2)Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Institute, Sagol
Neuroscience Center and Department of Neurology, Chaim Sheba Medical Center,
Tel-Hashomer, Ramat Gan, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv
University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (3)Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders
Institute, Sagol Neuroscience Center and Department of Neurology, Chaim Sheba
Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Ramat Gan, Israel. (4)Department of Epidemiology
and Preventive Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (5)Parkinson
Disease and Movement Disorders Institute, Sagol Neuroscience Center and
Department of Neurology, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Ramat Gan,
Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Electronic address: shassin@post.tau.ac.il.

INTRODUCTION: Parkinson's disease (PD) displays an individually variable rate of 
progression, of which the underlying mechanisms are largely unknown, but may
involve genetic factors. In this study, we aimed to explore the effect of ethnic 
origin on PD progression rate in Israeli Jews, as expressed by time from onset
until reaching Hoehn and Yahr stage 3 (HY3).
METHODS: Consecutive patients with PD followed bi-annually at the Movement
Disorders Institute at Sheba Medical Center, were included. Demographic data and 
clinical information, including age at PD onset (AO), H&Y staging, and family
history of PD, were collected. Ethnicity was determined based on the parents'
origin and was categorized as Ashkenazi Jews (AJ), Yemenite Jews (YJ), North
African Jews (NAJ) and Oriental Jews (OJ) excluding YJ. Associations between the 
above variables and the time to HY3 were determined using Cox proportional
hazards model. Survival curves were derived from the model.
RESULTS: Of 707 patients [430 males, AJ: 458, YJ: 37, NAJ: 75 and OJ: 137]
included in the analysis, 343 had reached HY3. In a multivariate analysis, a
longer time to HY3 was significantly associated with a younger AO (HR = 1.07, p <
0.001). YJ showed a significantly shorter time to HY3 compared to AJ and OJ, but 
not compared to NAJ. Time to HY3 was significantly shorter for NAJ than for OJ.
CONCLUSION: Jewish PD patients of Yemenite and North African origin may have a
more rapid progression of PD, compared to those of Ashkenazi and Oriental origin,
suggesting distinctive genetic influences.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25550275  [PubMed - in process]


904. Toxicology. 2015 Feb 3;328:168-78. doi: 10.1016/j.tox.2014.12.015. Epub 2014 Dec 
27.

Modifying welding process parameters can reduce the neurotoxic potential of
manganese-containing welding fumes.

Sriram K(1), Lin GX(2), Jefferson AM(2), Stone S(2), Afshari A(2), Keane MJ(2),
McKinney W(2), Jackson M(2), Chen BT(2), Schwegler-Berry D(2), Cumpston A(2),
Cumpston JL(2), Roberts JR(2), Frazer DG(2), Antonini JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Health Effects Laboratory Division, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Morgantown, WV
26505, USA. Electronic address: kos4@cdc.gov. (2)Health Effects Laboratory
Division, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health, Morgantown, WV 26505, USA.

Welding fumes (WF) are a complex mixture of toxic metals and gases, inhalation of
which can lead to adverse health effects among welders. The presence of manganese
(Mn) in welding electrodes is cause for concern about the potential development
of Parkinson's disease (PD)-like neurological disorder. Consequently, from an
occupational safety perspective, there is a critical need to prevent adverse
exposures to WF. As the fume generation rate and physicochemical characteristics 
of welding aerosols are influenced by welding process parameters like voltage,
current or shielding gas, we sought to determine if changing such parameters can 
alter the fume profile and consequently its neurotoxic potential. Specifically,
we evaluated the influence of voltage on fume composition and neurotoxic outcome.
Rats were exposed by whole-body inhalation (40 mg/m(3); 3h/day × 5 d/week × 2
weeks) to fumes generated by gas-metal arc welding using stainless steel
electrodes (GMA-SS) at standard/regular voltage (25 V; RVSS) or high voltage (30 
V; HVSS). Fumes generated under these conditions exhibited similar particulate
morphology, appearing as chain-like aggregates; however, HVSS fumes comprised of 
a larger fraction of ultrafine particulates that are generally considered to be
more toxic than their fine counterparts. Paradoxically, exposure to HVSS fumes
did not elicit dopaminergic neurotoxicity, as monitored by the expression of
dopaminergic and PD-related markers. We show that the lack of neurotoxicity is
due to reduced solubility of Mn in HVSS fumes. Our findings show promise for
process control procedures in developing prevention strategies for Mn-related
neurotoxicity during welding; however, it warrants additional investigations to
determine if such modifications can be suitably adapted at the workplace to avert
or reduce adverse neurological risks.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

PMID: 25549921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


905. J Wound Ostomy Continence Nurs. 2015 Jan-Feb;42(1):94-9. doi:
10.1097/WON.0000000000000078.

Transcutaneous tibial nerve stimulation in the treatment of lower urinary tract
symptoms and its impact on health-related quality of life in patients with
Parkinson disease: a randomized controlled trial.

Perissinotto MC(1), DʼAncona CA, Lucio A, Campos RM, Abreu A.

Author information: 
(1)Maria Carolina Perissinotto, PhD, Universidade Estadual de Campinas-Unicamp,
Department of Urology, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil. Carlos Arturo Levi D'Ancona, 
PhD, Universidade Estadual de Campinas-Unicamp, Department of Urology, Campinas, 
São Paulo, Brazil. Adélia Lúcio, PhD, Universidade Estadual de Campinas-Unicamp, 
Department of Urology, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil. Renata Martins Campos, MSN,
Universidade Estadual de Campinas-Unicamp, Department of Urology, Campinas, São
Paulo, Brazil. Anelyssa Abreu, PhD, Universidade Estadual de Campinas-Unicamp,
Department of Neurology, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.

PURPOSE: A randomized controlled trial study was performed to evaluate the
efficacy of transcutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (TTNS) and sham TTNS, in
patients with Parkinson disease (PD) with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS).
DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial.
SUBJECTS AND SETTINGS: Thirteen patients with a diagnosis of PD and bothersome
LUTS were randomly allocated to one of the following groups: Group I: TTNS group 
(n = 8) and group II: Sham group (n = 5). Both groups attended twice a week
during 5 weeks; each session lasted 30 minutes.
METHODS: Eight patients received TTNS treatment and 5 subjects allocated to group
II were managed with sham surface electrodes that delivered no electrical
stimulation. Assessments were performed before and after the treatment; they
included a 3-day bladder diary, Overactive Bladder Questionnaire (OAB-V8), and
the International Consultation on Incontinence Quality of Life Questionnaire
Short Form (ICIQ-SF), and urodynamic evaluation.
RESULTS: Following 5 weeks of treatment, patients allocated to TTNS demonstrated 
statistically significant reductions in the number of urgency episodes (P = .004)
and reductions in nocturia episodes (P < .01). Participants allocated to active
treatment also showed better results after treatment in the OAB-V8 and ICIQ-SF
scores (P < .01, respectively). Urodynamic testing revealed that patients in the 
active treatment group showed improvements in intravesical volume at strong
desire to void (P < .05) and volume at urgency (P < .01) when compared to
subjects in the sham treatment group.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that TTNS is effective in the treatment of
LUTS in patients with PD, reducing urgency and nocturia episodes and improving
urodynamic parameters as well as symptom scores measured by the OAB-V8 and
health-related quality-of-life scores measured by the ICIQ-SF.

PMID: 25549314  [PubMed - in process]


906. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 30;9(12):e115768. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115768.
eCollection 2014.

Image derived input function for [18F]-FEPPA: application to quantify
translocator protein (18 kDa) in the human brain.

Mabrouk R(1), Rusjan PM(1), Mizrahi R(2), Jacobs MF(3), Koshimori Y(4), Houle
S(1), Ko JH(5), Strafella AP(6).

Author information: 
(1)Research Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH),
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (2)Research Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and
Mental Health (CAMH), Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Psychiatry,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (3)Division of Brain, Imaging
and Behaviour, Systems Neuroscience, Toronto Western Research Institute, UHN,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (4)Research Imaging Centre,
Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Division
of Brain, Imaging and Behaviour, Systems Neuroscience, Toronto Western Research
Institute, UHN, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (5)Department of
Human Anatomy and Cell Science, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada. (6)Research Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health
(CAMH), Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorder
Unit, E.J. Safra Parkinson Disease Program, Toronto Western Hospital, UHN,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; Division of Brain, Imaging and Behaviour,
Systems Neuroscience, Toronto Western Research Institute, UHN, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

In [18F]-FEPPA positron emission topography (PET) imaging, automatic blood
sampling system (ABSS) is currently the gold standard to obtain the blood time
activity curve (TAC) required to extract the input function (IF). Here, we
compare the performance of two image-based methods of IF extraction to the ABSS
gold standard method for the quantification of translocator protein (TSPO) in the
human brain. The IFs were obtained from a direct delineation of the internal
carotid signal (CS) and a new concept of independent component analysis (ICA).
PET scans were obtained from 18 healthy volunteers. The estimated total
distribution volume (V(T)) by CS-IF and ICA-IF were compared to the reference
V(T) obtained by ABSS-IF in the frontal and temporal cortex, cerebellum, striatum
and thalamus regions. The V(T) values estimated using ICA-IF were more reliable
than CS-IF for all brain regions. Specifically, the slope regression in the
frontal cortex with ICA-IF was r² = 0.91 (p<0.05), and r² = 0.71 (p<0.05) using
CS-IF.

PMCID: PMC4280118
PMID: 25549260  [PubMed - in process]


907. Postgrad Med. 2014 Nov;126(7):160-3.

Puzzles in practice: acquired hepatocerebral (or hepatolenticular) degeneration
(AHD).

Mishriki YY.

PMID: 25548817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Exp Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;23(4):365-71. doi: 10.5607/en.2014.23.4.365. Epub 2014
Dec 12.

ATP13A2/PARK9 Deficiency Neither Cause Lysosomal Impairment Nor Alter α-Synuclein
Metabolism in SH-SY5Y Cells.

Bae EJ(1), Lee C(2), Lee HJ(2), Kim S(3), Lee SJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and Technology, School of Medicine, Konkuk
University, Seoul 143-701, Korea. ; Institute of Biomedical Science and
Technology, School of Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul 143-701, Korea.
(2)Institute of Biomedical Science and Technology, School of Medicine, Konkuk
University, Seoul 143-701, Korea. ; Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine,
Konkuk University, Seoul 143-701, Korea. (3)ToolGen, Inc., Biotechnology
Incubating Center, Seoul National University, Seoul 305-390, Korea. (4)Department
of Biomedical Science and Technology, School of Medicine, Konkuk University,
Seoul 143-701, Korea. ; Institute of Biomedical Science and Technology, School of
Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul 143-701, Korea. ; College of Veterinary
Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul 143-701, Korea.

Parkinson's disease is a multifactorial disorder with several genes linked to the
familial types of the disease. ATP13A2 is one of those genes and encode for a
transmembrane protein localized in lysosomes and late endosomes. Previous studies
suggested the roles of this protein in lysosomal functions and cellular ion
homeostasis. Here, we set out to investigate the role of ATP13A2 in lysosomal
function and in metabolism of α-synuclein, another PD-linked protein whose
accumulation is implicated in the pathogenesis. We generated non-sense mutations 
in both copies of ATP13A2 gene in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. We examined 
lysosomal function of ATP13A2-/- cells by measuring the accumulation of lysosomal
substrate proteins, such as p62 and polyubiquitinated proteins, induction of
acidic compartments, and degradation of ectopically introduced dextran. None of
these measures were altered by ATP13A2 deficiency. The steady-state levels of
α-synuclein in cells or secretion of this protein were unaltered either in
ATP13A2-/- compared to the normal cells. Therefore, the proposed roles of ATP13A2
in lysosomal functions may not be generalized and may depend on the cellular
context. The ATP13A2-/- cells generated in the current study may provide a useful
control for studies on the roles of PD genes in lysosomal functions.

PMCID: PMC4276807
PMID: 25548536  [PubMed]


909. Exp Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;23(4):352-64. doi: 10.5607/en.2014.23.4.352. Epub 2014
Dec 12.

What is the Clinical Significance of Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in
Parkinson's disease? Is the Significance Diagnostic or Prognostic?

Kim D(1), Paik JH(2), Shin DW(3), Kim HS(1), Park CS(1), Kang JH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Inha University School of Medicine, Korea. ;
Hypoxia-related Disease Research Center, Inha University School of Medicine,
Korea. (2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Inha University Hospital, Incheon
400-712, Korea. (3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Inje University Ilsan Paik
Hospital, Ilsan 411-706, Korea. (4)Department of Pharmacology, Inha University
School of Medicine, Korea. ; Hypoxia-related Disease Research Center, Inha
University School of Medicine, Korea. ; Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, 19104, USA.

The clinical diagnostic criteria of Parkinson's disease (PD) have limitations in 
detecting the disease at early stage and in differentiating heterogeneous
clinical progression. The lack of reliable biomarker(s) for early diagnosis and
prediction of prognosis is a major hurdle to achieve optimal clinical care of
patients and efficient design of clinical trials for disease-modifying
therapeutics. Numerous efforts to discover PD biomarkers in CSF were conducted.
In this review, we describe the molecular pathogenesis of PD and discuss its
implication to develop PD biomarkers in CSF. Next, we summarize the clinical
utility of CSF biomarkers including alpha-synuclein for early and differential
diagnosis, and prediction of PD progression. Given the heterogeneity in the
clinical features of PD and none of the CSF biomarkers for an early diagnosis
have been developed, research efforts to develop biomarkers to predict
heterogeneous disease progression is on-going. Notably, a rapid cognitive decline
followed by the development of dementia is a risk factor of poor prognosis in PD.
In connection to this, CSF levels of Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers have
received considerable attention. However, we still need long-term longitudinal
observational studies employing large cohorts to evaluate the clinical utility of
CSF biomarkers reflecting Lewy body pathology and AD pathology in the brain. We
believe that current research efforts including the Parkinson's Progression
Markers Initiative will resolve the current needs of early diagnosis and/or
prediction of disease progression using CSF biomarkers, and which will further
accelerate the development of disease-modifying therapeutics and optimize the
clinical management of PD patients.

PMCID: PMC4276806
PMID: 25548535  [PubMed]


910. Exp Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;23(4):314-23. doi: 10.5607/en.2014.23.4.314. Epub 2014
Dec 12.

ATP13A2 and Alpha-synuclein: a Metal Taste in Autophagy.

Lopes da Fonseca T(1), Outeiro TF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurodegeneration and Restorative Research, Center for Nanoscale
Microscopy and Molecular Physiology of the Brain, University Medical Center
Göttingen, 37073 Göttingen, Germany. ; Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculdade
de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal.

Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a complex and multifactorial disorder of both
idiopathic and genetic origin. Thus far, more than 20 genes have been linked to
familial forms of PD. Two of these genes encode for ATP13A2 and alpha-synuclein
(asyn), proteins that seem to be members of a common network in both
physiological and disease conditions. Thus, two different hypotheses have emerged
supporting a role of ATP13A2 and asyn in metal homeostasis or in autophagy.
Interestingly, an appealing theory might combine these two cellular pathways.
Here we review the novel findings in the interaction between these two proteins
and debate the exciting roads still ahead.

PMCID: PMC4276802
PMID: 25548531  [PubMed]


911. Exp Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;23(4):292-313. doi: 10.5607/en.2014.23.4.292. Epub 2014
Dec 12.

Alpha-synuclein function and dysfunction on cellular membranes.

Snead D(1), Eliezer D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 10065,
USA.

Alpha-synuclein is a small neuronal protein that is closely associated with the
etiology of Parkinson's disease. Mutations in and alterations in expression
levels of alpha-synuclein cause autosomal dominant early onset heredity forms of 
Parkinson's disease, and sporadic Parkinson's disease is defined in part by the
presence of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites that are composed primarily of
alpha-synuclein deposited in an aggregated amyloid fibril state. The normal
function of alpha-synuclein is poorly understood, and the precise mechanisms by
which it leads to toxicity and cell death are also unclear. Although
alpha-synuclein is a highly soluble, cytoplasmic protein, it binds to a variety
of cellular membranes of different properties and compositions. These
interactions are considered critical for at least some normal functions of
alpha-synuclein, and may well play critical roles in both the aggregation of the 
protein and its mechanisms of toxicity. Here we review the known features of
alpha-synuclein membrane interactions in the context of both the putative
functions of the protein and of its pathological roles in disease.

PMCID: PMC4276801
PMID: 25548530  [PubMed]


912. Exp Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;23(4):271-6. doi: 10.5607/en.2014.23.4.271. Epub 2014 Dec
12.

Hypothesis: somatic mosaicism and Parkinson disease.

Kim HJ(1), Jeon BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Movement Disorder Center, Parkinson Study Group,
and Neuroscience Research Institute, College of Medicine, Seoul National
University, Seoul, Korea.

Mutations causing genetic disorders can occur during mitotic cell division after 
fertilization, which is called somatic mutations. This leads to somatic
mosaicism, where two or more genetically distinct cells are present in one
individual. Somatic mutations are the most well studied in cancer where it plays 
an important role and also have been associated with some neurodegenerative
disorders. The study of somatic mosaicism in Parkinson disease (PD) is only in
its infancy, and a case with somatic mutation has not yet been described.
However, we can speculate that a somatic mutation affecting cells in the central 
nervous system including substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons could lead to the 
development of PD through the same pathomechanisms of genetic PD even in the
absence of a germ-line mutation. Theoretically, a number of genes could be
candidates for genetic analysis for the presence of somatic mosaicism. Among
them, SNCA and PARK2 could be the best candidates to analyze. Because analyzing
brain tissues in living patients is impossible, alternative tissues could be used
to indicate the genetic status of the brain. Performance of the technology is
another factor to consider when analyzing the tissues.

PMCID: PMC4276799
PMID: 25548528  [PubMed]


913. Neurology. 2015 Jan 6;84(1):104. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001101.

Cognitive training in Parkinson disease: Cognition-specific vs nonspecific
computer training.

Sturm W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Roetgen, Germany.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2015 Jan 6;84(1):104-5.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2014 Apr 8;82(14):1219-26.

PMID: 25548238  [PubMed - in process]


914. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):216-20. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.008. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Quitting smoking: an early non-motor feature of Parkinson's disease?

Moccia M(1), Erro R(2), Picillo M(3), Vassallo E(3), Vitale C(4), Longo K(5),
Amboni M(5), Santangelo G(6), Palladino R(7), Nardone A(8), Triassi M(8), Barone 
P(9), Pellecchia MT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive Science and Odontostomatology,
Federico II University, Naples, Italy. (2)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience
and Movement Disorders, University College London (UCL) Institute of Neurology,
London, United Kingdom; Department of Neurological and Movement Sciences,
University of Verona, Policlinico Borgo Roma, Verona, Italy. (3)Center for
Neurodegenerative Diseases (CEMAND), Neuroscience Section, Department of
Medicine, University of Salerno, 84131, Italy. (4)IDC Hermitage Capodimonte,
Naples, Italy; Department of Motor Sciences, University Parthenope, Naples,
Italy. (5)IDC Hermitage Capodimonte, Naples, Italy. (6)Neuropsychology
Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Caserta,
Italy. (7)Department of Primary Care and Public Health, Imperial College, London,
United Kingdom; Department of Public Health, Federico II University, Naples,
Italy. (8)Department of Public Health, Federico II University, Naples, Italy.
(9)Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (CEMAND), Neuroscience Section,
Department of Medicine, University of Salerno, 84131, Italy. Electronic address: 
pbarone@unisa.it.

INTRODUCTION: Epidemiological studies report a 60-70% reduced risk of Parkinson's
disease (PD) in smokers as compared to non-smokers. However, relationships
between former smoking and PD have been poorly investigated.
METHODS: We recruited 116 de novo PD subjects, and investigated current, former
and never smoking, and reasons for smoking cessation among former smokers. Two
hundred and thirty-two controls were matched by Propensity Score.
RESULTS: PD subjects and controls were found to be current smokers (7.7 vs.
39.6%), former smokers (43.9 vs. 6.5%) and never smokers (48.2 vs. 53.9%).
Logistic regression showed that current smokers were less likely to have PD (p < 
0.001; OR: 0.22; 95% CI: 0.10-0.46), while former smokers were more likely to
have PD (p < 0.001; OR: 7.6; 95% CI: 4.09-15.75), as compared to never smokers.
Fifty-one PD patients reported quitting smoking before PD diagnosis (mean time
since cessation 9.4 ± 7.3 years). Most important reasons to quit smoking in PD
group were illness different from PD (26 subjects, 51.0%), knowledge of the
harmful effects of smoking (24 subjects, 47.0%), and physician's advice (1
subject, 2.0%).
CONCLUSION: The reduced prevalence of current smokers among PD subjects as
compared to healthy controls is consistent with previous findings, suggesting a
possible neuroprotective effect of smoking. However, it could be due, at least in
part, to the increased prevalence of former smokers among PD patients, that were 
more prone to quit smoking as compared to healthy controls. We suggest that
smoking cessation could be an early preclinical condition occurring in PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25547948  [PubMed - in process]


915. Curr Top Med Chem. 2014 Dec 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Oxidative Stress and Neurodegenerative Diseases: Looking for a Therapeutic
Solution Inspired on Benzopyran Chemistry.

Gaspar A, Milhazes N, Santana L, Uriarte E, Borges F, Matos MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)CIQUP/Departamento de Química e Bioquímica, Faculdade de Ciências,
Universidade do Porto, Porto 4169-007, Portugal, Departamento de Química
Orgánica, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago
de Compostela 15782, Spain. mariacmatos@gmail.com.

Reactive species are continuously produced in vivo by all body tissues. However, 
when an imbalance between the reactive species production and the endogenous pool
of antioxidants occurs, the resulting oxidative stress can somehow intensify the 
pathophysiological mechanisms of several diseases, such as neurodegenerative
diseases. Although the aetiology of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases is not
yet completely understood, it is accepted by the scientific community that the
oxidative stress can act as a trigger or can be involved in the course of both
diseases. Therefore, the development of an antioxidant-based therapy could be a
helpful approach to ameliorate the deleterious effects of oxidative stress in
neurodegenerative diseases. Coumarins and chromones are natural or synthetic
chemical entities described as privileged structures with diverse biological
activities that have been used to design new drugs with potential anti-Alzheimer 
and anti-Parkinson profiles. Since some of these compounds also displayed potent 
antioxidant activity, the rationale approach to developing new drugs based on the
benzopyran scaffold, as therapeutic alternatives for neurodegenerative diseases, 
is a valid and compelling topic. This review provides a medicinal chemistry
overview on the discovery and development of benzopyran-based compounds endowed
with antioxidant, neuroprotective and anti-Alzheimer or anti-Parkinson
activities.

PMID: 25547103  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


916. Curr Top Med Chem. 2014 Dec 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Melatonin Redox Activity. Its Potential Clinical Application in Neurodegenerative
Disorders.

Miller E(1), Morel A, Saso L, Saluk J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, Hallera 1, Lodz, 
Poland. elzbieta.dorota.miller@umed.lodz.pl.

Neurodegeneration is the hallmark of many chronic progressive neurogical
disorders characterized by specific clinical, morphological and biochemical
features. Central nervous system is very sensitive to oxidative stress, which is 
considered as a key factor of neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, many
therapeutical strategies are focused on molecules with redox activity to
re-establish the equilibrium between pro and antioxidants. Due to the fact that
melatonin readily crosses the blood- brain-barrier, concomitant with its safety
profile at the highest dosages makes this dietary supplement very useful in
possible clinical application in neurodegeneration. Melatonin is currently
marketed in several countries as a dietary supplement with no prescription.
Clinical trials have shown different effectiveness of melatonin supplementation
in several disorders, including neurodegenerative disorders. Melatonin has unique
biochemical properties such as scavenging of hydroxyl, carbonate, alkoxyl,
peroxyl and aryl cation radicals and stimulation of activities main antioxidative
enzymes (glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase etc.). Moreover, it can
suppress nitric oxide synthase. The present paper highlighted the potential
clinical role of melatonin in main neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer
disease, Parkinson disease, amylotrophic lateral sclerosis and multiple
sclerosis. Moreover, in this review the main molecular aspects of melatonin in
brain cell protection and survival mechanisms were discussed. Therefore,
melatonin is regarded as a potential therapeutical agent in clinical application 
in neurodegenerative disorders, but this findings needs to be confirmed by the
larger, more well-designed clinical trials.

PMID: 25547102  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


917. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):301-12. doi: 10.1002/mds.26113. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Stem cell reprogramming: basic implications and future perspective for movement
disorders.

Brändl B(1), Schneider SA, Loring JF, Hardy J, Gribbon P, Müller FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Psychiatry, University Hospital Schleswig Holstein, Campus Kiel,
Germany.

The introduction of stem cell-associated molecular factors into human
patient-derived cells allows for their reprogramming in the laboratory
environment. As a result, human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) can now be
reprogrammed epigenetically without disruption of their overall genomic
integrity. For patients with neurodegenerative diseases characterized by
progressive loss of functional neurons, the ability to reprogram any individual's
cells and drive their differentiation toward susceptible neuronal subtypes holds 
great promise. Apart from applications in regenerative medicine and cell
replacement-based therapy, hiPSCs are increasingly used in preclinical research
for establishing disease models and screening for drug toxicities. The rapid
developments in this field prompted us to review recent progress toward the
applications of stem cell technologies for movement disorders. We introduce
reprogramming strategies and explain the critical steps in the differentiation of
hiPSCs to clinical relevant subtypes of cells in the context of movement
disorders. We summarize and discuss recent discoveries in this field, which,
based on the rapidly expanding basic science literature as well as upcoming
trends in personalized medicine, will strongly influence the future therapeutic
options available to practitioners working with patients suffering from such
disorders.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25546831  [PubMed - in process]


918. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):545-51. doi: 10.1002/mds.26111. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Is the Parkinson anxiety scale comparable across raters?

Forjaz MJ(1), Ayala A, Martinez-Martin P, Dujardin K, Pontone GM, Starkstein SE, 
Weintraub D, Leentjens AF.

Author information: 
(1)National School of Public Health, Institute of Health Carlos III and REDISSEC,
Madrid, Spain.

The Parkinson Anxiety Scale is a new scale developed to measure anxiety severity 
in Parkinson's disease specifically. It consists of three dimensions: persistent 
anxiety, episodic anxiety, and avoidance behavior. This study aimed to assess the
measurement properties of the scale while controlling for the rater (self- vs.
clinician-rated) effect. The Parkinson Anxiety Scale was administered to a
cross-sectional multicenter international sample of 362 Parkinson's disease
patients. Both patients and clinicians rated the patient's anxiety independently.
A many-facet Rasch model design was applied to estimate and remove the rater
effect. The following measurement properties were assessed: fit to the Rasch
model, unidimensionality, reliability, differential item functioning, item local 
independency, interrater reliability (self or clinician), and scale targeting. In
addition, test-retest stability, construct validity, precision, and diagnostic
properties of the Parkinson Anxiety Scale were also analyzed. A good fit to the
Rasch model was obtained for Parkinson Anxiety Scale dimensions A and B, after
the removal of one item and rescoring of the response scale for certain items,
whereas dimension C showed marginal fit. Self versus clinician rating differences
were of small magnitude, with patients reporting higher anxiety levels than
clinicians. The linear measure for Parkinson Anxiety Scale dimensions A and B
showed good convergent construct with other anxiety measures and good diagnostic 
properties. Parkinson Anxiety Scale modified dimensions A and B provide valid and
reliable measures of anxiety in Parkinson's disease that are comparable across
raters. Further studies are needed with dimension C. © 2014 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25546697  [PubMed - in process]


919. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):359-67. doi: 10.1002/mds.26110. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Progression of gait dysfunction in incident Parkinson's disease: impact of
medication and phenotype.

Galna B(1), Lord S, Burn DJ, Rochester L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK;
Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon
Tyne, UK.

Gait impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) persists despite the use of
dopaminergic therapy. Motor phenotype associated with greater postural
instability and gait difficulty is related to a greater risk of motor decline and
may be influenced by non-dopaminergic pathology. This study documents the
progression of gait impairment over 18 months in an incident cohort of PD with
regard to phenotype and medication. Gait characteristics were measured in 121 PD 
and 184 controls, and 18 months later in 108 PD participants. Sixteen gait
characteristics were examined with respect to five broad domains for PD and motor
phenotype. Correlations between change in levodopa (l-dopa) equivalent daily dose
and gait were used to identify dopa-responsive and nonresponsive characteristics.
Pace and rhythm deteriorated over 18 months in people with PD, with other gait
domains remaining stable. People with a postural instability and gait difficulty 
phenotype had more impaired gait at baseline compared with a tremor-dominant
phenotype, which was most evident in temporal characteristics. In contrast, pace 
and variability deteriorated over the subsequent 18 months in the tremor-dominant
phenotype only. Weak but statistically significant correlations were found
between increased l-dopa medication and less deterioration in pace and asymmetry.
Significant gait impairment is evident in very early disease despite optimal
medication. Change over 18 months is subtle and discrete, and is more pronounced 
in the tremor-dominant phenotype. Some features of gait are refractory to
dopaminergic therapy, implicating a non-dopaminergic contribution. This may
explain more temporal gait disturbance in the postural instability and gait
difficulty phenotype.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25546558  [PubMed - in process]


920. Rehabil Nurs. 2014 Dec 27. doi: 10.1002/rnj.197. [Epub ahead of print]

Deliberately Light Interpersonal Touch as an Aid to Balance Control in Neurologic
Conditions.

Johannsen L(1), McKenzie E, Brown M, Redfern MS, Wing AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Sport and Health Sciences, Technische Universität München,
Munich, Germany; Behavioural Brain Sciences Centre, School of Psychology,
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

PURPOSE: We aimed to quantify the benefit of externally provided deliberately
light interpersonal touch (IPT) on body sway in neurological patients.
DESIGN: IPT effect on sway was assessed experimentally across differing
contacting conditions in a group of 12 patients with Parkinson's disease and a
group of 11 patients with chronic hemiparetic stroke.
METHODS: A pressure plate recorded sway when IPT was provided by a healthcare
professional at various locations on a patient's back.
FINDINGS: Interpersonal touch on the back reduced anteroposterior body sway in
both groups. Numerically, IPT was more effective when applied more superior on
the back, specifically at shoulder level, and when applied at two contact
locations simultaneously.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate the benefit of deliberately light IPT on the
back to facilitate patients' postural stability.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Deliberately light IPT resembles a manual handling strategy
which minimizes load imposed on healthcare professionals when providing balance
support, while it facilitates patients' own sensorimotor control of body balance 
during standing.

© 2014 Association of Rehabilitation Nurses.

PMID: 25546374  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


921. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr 15;30(5):736-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26108. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Predictors of response to a cognitive behavioral intervention for impulse control
behaviors in Parkinson's disease.

Okai D(1), Askey-Jones S, Samuel M, David AS, Brown RG.

Author information: 
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience,
Section of Cognitive Neuropsychiatry, Department of Psychosis studies, London,
United Kingdom; Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, Oxford, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Limited trial evidence suggests that cognitive-behavioral therapy
(CBT) may be effective in managing impulse control behavior (ICBs) in Parkinson's
disease.
AIMS: To examine predictors of outcome in trial, participants (N = 42) receiving 
treatment immediately or after a waiting time.
METHODS: Dependent variables were Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGI-C)
and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). Baseline demographic and clinical
variables were independent variables.
RESULTS: Better CGI-C was predicted by fewer ICBs, taking a dopamine agonist,
lower levodopa (l-dopa) equivalent dose (LEDD), higher social functioning, and
lower NPI severity before treatment. Improvement on the NPI was predicted by
lower LEDD, lower anxiety, lower baseline global clinical severity, and higher
social functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with lower burden of ICBs and other psychiatric
symptomatology, better social functioning, and lower dose of antiparkinsonian
medication may benefit more from CBT. However, we cannot yet identify individual 
patients with sufficient confidence at this stage to target treatment. © 2014
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25546340  [PubMed - in process]


922. Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):379-85. doi: 10.1002/mds.26107. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

The significance of motor (a)symmetry in Parkinson's disease.

Marinus J(1), van Hilten JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands.

This study was undertaken to evaluate whether the predominant motor distribution 
pattern (ie, symmetric or asymmetric) observed in patients with Parkinson's
disease (PD) contributes independently to disease severity and progression. We
further examine whether this pattern is stable over time, and whether a potential
change in pattern affects the course of the disease. We used data from the
longitudinal PROPARK study (N > 400) to examine the association of the
predominant motor distribution pattern with motor, cognitive, depressive,
psychotic, and autonomic symptoms, and with excessive daytime sleepiness. We
found that a symmetrical distribution of motor features was associated with
poorer performance on nearly all domains, but that this was entirely explained by
confounding, in particular by higher age and longer disease duration. We also
found that greater asymmetry was associated with younger age, younger age at
onset, and shorter disease duration. We further observed a clear tendency to
develop a more symmetric distribution pattern as the disease advanced. Conversion
to a symmetric pattern was associated with more severe disease, but this
conversion did not contribute independently to the less favorable disease course.
With increasing age and disease duration comes a clear tendency to develop a more
symmetric distribution of motor features in PD. Although this change in
distribution pattern is associated with more severe disease as compared with
nonconvertors, this pattern change did not contribute independently to the less
favorable course. We discuss these findings in light of the evidence from the
literature.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25546239  [PubMed - in process]


923. Clin Nucl Med. 2015 Mar;40(3):191-4. doi: 10.1097/RLU.0000000000000638.

Differential alterations of dopamine transporter in the striatum and midbrain in 
patients with parkinsonian syndrome.

Matesan MC(1), Cross DJ, Lewis DH, Minoshima S.

Author information: 
(1)From the University of Washington, Seattle, WA.

OBJECTIVES: Differential vulnerabilities of subregional dopamine neurons have
been suggested in movement disorders such as idiopathic Parkinson disease. In
this study, we examined dopamine transporter (DaT) density in the striatum versus
midbrain (MB) in patients with nigrostriatal denervation.
METHODS: Brain SPECT was performed in 39 patients with parkinsonian syndrome (age
61 ± 15 years, 18 male patients) 4 hours after IV injection of 3 to 5 mCi 123I
ioflupane using SPECT-CT acquisition. Images were reconstructed using OSEM with
resolution recovery and correction for scatter and attenuation based on a
low-dose CT. Peak pixel counts within the caudate head (CA), mid putamen (PT),
and MB localized by sagittal CT, as well as averaged counts around the calcarine 
fissure as reference, were determined by region-of-interest analysis.
Semiquantitative DaT values were expressed as CA, PT, or MB uptake relative to
the reference. We then assessed the relationship between the MB measurements and 
independent clinical evaluation of motor symptoms in these patients.
RESULTS: Averaged striatal DaT values for both hemispheres ranged from 1.67 to
6.59 for CA, 1.50 to 5.33 for PT, and 1.08 to 2.24 for MB. Within the high
striatal DaT group (mean, 4.76 [SD, 0.55]) and low DaT group (mean, 2.71 [SD,
0.58]; dichotomy defined as a threshold of 4), mean DaT values in MB were 1.68
(SD, 0.32) and 1.53 (SD, 0.29), respectively, indicating nonsignificant 9%
decrease (P > 0.15) in comparison to 43% decrease in the averaged striatal
uptake. Within the high striatal DaT group, Pearson correlations between DaT
values of CA and PT versus MB were highly significant at 0.81 and 0.82 (P ≤
0.001), respectively, but those correlations were not significant, 0.35 (P >
0.05) and 0.06 (P > 0.75), in the low striatal DaT group. Midbrain uptake
measurements did not correlate with motor symptoms (bradykinesia, tremor,
rigidity, and postural instability).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that reductions in DaT values in the
striatum and MB are not necessarily simultaneous with the process of
nigrostriatal denervation, and correlation of DaT values among CA/PT and MB
becomes weaker as the denervation becomes more severe. Differential regional DaT 
loss may indicate differential vulnerability of DaT-containing neurons in these
structures or could be in part related to tracer binding to non-DaT targets.

PMID: 25546191  [PubMed - in process]


924. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):531-7. doi: 10.1002/mds.26100. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

A population-based study on combined markers for early Parkinson's disease.

Tunc S(1), Graf J, Tadic V, Brüggemann N, Schmidt A, Al-Khaled M, Wolff S,
Vollstedt EJ, Lorwin A, Hampf J, Piskol L, Klein C, Hagenah J, Kasten M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Luebeck, Germany;
Institute of Neurogenetics, University of Luebeck, Germany.

The prerequisite for an earlier diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) are markers
that are both sensitive and specific for clinically definite PD and its
prediagnosic phases. Promising candidates include enlarged hyperechogenicity of
the substantia nigra (SN+) on transcranial sonography (TCS) and hyposmia.
However, despite good sensitivity and specificity, both markers have yet failed
to yield reliable predictions. We pursue the possibility of combined use in an
ongoing population-based cohort. Subjects were recruited from 10,000 inhabitants 
of Luebeck/Germany aged 50 to 79 years and additional PD patients from our
outpatient clinic. After neurological examination, 715 subjects were grouped into
clinically definite PD (n = 106), possible prediagnostic PD (ppPD; n = 73), and a
control group subdivided into healthy individuals (n = 283) and controls with
diseases other than PD (n = 253). Subjects underwent TCS and smell testing.
Sensitivity and specificity of SN+ and hyposmia were good for PD; however,
positive predictive values (PPV) of both SN+ (5.2%) and olfaction (2.5%) were
low. At least one positive/both positive markers were present in 33%/1% of
healthy controls, 33%/2% of diseased controls, 62%/7% of ppPD, and 94%/51% of PD.
When combining SN+ and hyposmia, PPV increased to 17.6%, with a sensitivity of
51% and a specificity of 98%. Both SN+ and hyposmia offer good enrichment towards
PD and ppPD, are stable against other diseases, and the combination of markers
highly increases specificity. However, if the combination of SN+ and hyposmia
were used as criterion for PD diagnosis, almost half of clinically definite PD
and more than 90% of ppPD would have been missed. © 2014 International Parkinson 
and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25546094  [PubMed - in process]


925. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb;30(2):238-44. doi: 10.1002/mds.26087. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Abnormal functional connectivity of the amygdala is associated with depression in
Parkinson's disease.

Hu X(1), Song X, Yuan Y, Li E, Liu J, Liu W, Liu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Brain Hospital of Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, China.

Depressive symptoms are common in Parkinson's disease (PD), but the
pathophysiology and neural basis underlying depression in PD is not well
understood. Abnormal functional connectivity of the amygdala with various
cortical and subcortical areas has been observed in major depressive disorder,
indicating that dysfunction of the corticolimbic network may be involved in the
pathogenesis of major depressive disorder. However, little is known about
alterations of amygdala functional connectivity in depressed PD patients. In the 
present study, 20 depressed PD patients, 40 nondepressed PD patients, and 43
matched healthy controls underwent neuropsychological tests and resting-state
functional MRI scanning. Between-group differences in amygdala functional
connectivity network were examined using t tests. Compared to the nondepressed PD
patients, depressed PD patients showed increased left amygdala functional
connectivity with the bilateral mediodorsal thalamus, right amygdala functional
connectivity with the left superior temporal gyrus, and left calcarine gyrus.
Compared to the healthy controls, the depressed PD group also showed increased
left amygdala functional connectivity with the bilateral mediodorsal thalamus,
but decreased left amygdala functional connectivity with the left putamen, left
inferior frontal gyrus, and the right cerebellum, as well as decreased right
amygdala functional connectivity with the left inferior orbitofrontal gyrus, the 
left gyrus rectus, and the right putamen. The increased connectivity between
limbic regions and decreased connectivity between the corticolimbic networks may 
reflect impaired high-order cortical regulatory effects on the emotion-related
limbic areas, which may lead to mood dysregulation. Our study should advance the 
understanding of neural mechanisms underlying depression in PD.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545969  [PubMed - in process]


926. Mov Disord. 2014 Dec 27. doi: 10.1002/mds.26129. [Epub ahead of print]

H-ABC syndrome and DYT4: Variable expressivity or pleiotropy of TUBB4 mutations?

Erro R(1), Hersheson J, Ganos C, Mencacci NE, Stamelou M, Batla A, Thust SC, Bras
JM, Guerreiro RJ, Hardy J, Quinn NP, Houlden H, Bhatia KP.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, University
College London (UCL) Institute of Neurology, London, United Kingdom; Dipartimento
di Scienze Neurologiche e del Movimento, Università di Verona, Verona, Italy.

Recently, mutations in the TUBB4A gene have been found to underlie
hypomyelination with atrophy of the basal ganglia and cerebellum (H-ABC)
syndrome, a rare neurodegenerative disorder of infancy and childhood. TUBB4A
mutations also have been described as causative of DYT4 ("hereditary whispering
dysphonia"). However, in DYT4, brain imaging has been reported to be normal and, 
therefore, H-ABC syndrome and DYT4 have been construed to be different disorders,
despite some phenotypic overlap. Hence, the question of whether these disorders
reflect variable expressivity or pleiotropy of TUBB4A mutations has been raised. 
We report four unrelated patients with imaging findings either partially or
totally consistent with H-ABC syndrome, who were found to have TUBB4A mutations. 
All four subjects had a relatively homogenous phenotype characterized by severe
generalized dystonia with superimposed pyramidal and cerebellar signs, and also
bulbar involvement leading to complete aphonia and swallowing difficulties, even 
though one of the cases had an intermediate phenotype between H-ABC syndrome and 
DYT4. Genetic analysis of the TUBB4A gene showed one previously described and two
novel mutations (c.941C>T; p.Ala314Val and c.900G>T; p.Met300Ile) in the exon 4
of the gene. While expanding the genetic spectrum of H-ABC syndrome, we confirm
its radiological heterogeneity and demonstrate that phenotypic overlap with DYT4.
Moreover, reappraisal of previously reported cases would also argue against
pleiotropy of TUBB4A mutations. We therefore suggest that H-ABC and DYT4 belong
to a continuous phenotypic spectrum associated with TUBB4A mutations. © 2014
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545912  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


927. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):577-80. doi: 10.1002/mds.26073. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Parkinson's disease correlates with promoter methylation in the α-synuclein gene.

Pihlstrøm L(1), Berge V, Rengmark A, Toft M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies have demonstrated association between
SNCA variability and susceptibility to Parkinson's disease, but causal mechanisms
are unclear. We hypothesized that risk variants affect methylation of a putative 
promoter in SNCA intron 1, previously highlighted in epigenetic studies of
Parkinson's disease.
METHODS: We analyzed sample sets from blood (n = 72) and cerebral cortex (n = 24)
in Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls. We genotyped SNCA
single-nucleotide polymorphisms, examined messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and
assessed intron 1 methylation levels by methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme 
digestion and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
RESULTS: Patients showed significant hypomethylation as compared with controls in
the blood sample set. In addition, rs3756063 was associated with SNCA methylation
level in both blood (P = 5.9 × 10(-5) ) and brain (P = 0.023).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support a link between SNCA variability, promoter
methylation, and Parkinson's disease risk and indicate that methylation patterns 
in brain are mirrored in the blood. SNCA methylation warrants further
investigation as a potential biomarker. © 2014 International Parkinson and
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545759  [PubMed - in process]


928. Mov Disord. 2014 Dec 27. doi: 10.1002/mds.26126. [Epub ahead of print]

Olfactory dysfunction in Parkinson's disease: Positive effect of cigarette
smoking.

Sharer JD(1), Leon-Sarmiento FE, Morley JF, Weintraub D, Doty RL.

Author information: 
(1)Smell and Taste Center, Department of Otorhinolaryngology:, Head and Neck
Surgery Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: There is compelling evidence from over 60 epidemiological studies
that smoking significantly reduces the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). In
general, those who currently smoke cigarettes, as well as those with a past
history of such smoking, have a reduced risk of PD compared to those who have
never smoked. Recently it has been suggested that a cardinal nonmotor sensory
symptom of PD, olfactory dysfunction, may be less severe in PD patients who smoke
than in PD patients who do not, in contrast to the negative effect of smoking on 
olfaction described in the general population.
METHODS: We evaluated University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test
(UPSIT) scores from 323 PD patients and 323 controls closely matched individually
on age, sex, and smoking history (never, past, or current).
RESULTS: Patients exhibited much lower UPSIT scores than did the controls
(P < 0.0001). The relative decline in dysfunction of the current PD smokers was
less than that of the never- and past-PD smokers (respective Ps = 0.0005 and
0.0019). Female PD patients outperformed their male counterparts by a larger
margin than did the female controls (3.66 vs. 1.07 UPSIT points; respective
Ps < 0.0001 and 0.06). Age-related declines in UPSIT scores were generally
present (P < 0.0001). No association between the olfactory measure and smoking
dose, as indexed by pack-years, was evident.
CONCLUSIONS: PD patients who currently smoke do not exhibit the smoking-related
decline in olfaction observed in non-PD control subjects who currently smoke. The
physiological basis of this phenomenon is yet to be defined. © 2014 International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545729  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


929. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):589-92. doi: 10.1002/mds.26124. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Effects of rasagiline on the progression of nonmotor scores of the MDS-UPDRS.

Poewe W(1), Hauser RA, Lang A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.

BACKGROUND: A draft version of part 1 (Non-Motor Aspects of Experiences of Daily 
Living; nM-EDL) of the MDS-UPDRS scale was employed as a secondary outcome in the
ADAGIO study, which assessed the effect of rasagiline in early Parkinson's
disease (PD) patients.
METHODS: This analysis includes 1,150 untreated PD patients randomized to placebo
or rasagiline 1 or 2 mg/day for 36 weeks in the placebo-controlled phase of
ADAGIO who had draft-nM-EDL assessments at baseline and week 36.
RESULTS: Over the 9-month placebo-controlled phase of the study, nM-EDL scores
significantly deteriorated from baseline in the placebo group only (0.34 ± 0.10
units; P < 0.001). Compared to the placebo group (n = 583), there was
significantly less deterioration in the 1-mg/day rasagiline group (n = 280;
treatment effect: -0.33 units; P < 0.05), whereas the treatment effect in the
2-mg/day rasagiline group (n = 287) was not statistically significant
(-0.25 ± 0.17 units; P = 0.131).
CONCLUSIONS: The nM-EDL subscale appears sensitive to change in very early PD,
and treatment with rasagiline 1 mg/day was associated with significantly less
decline in nonmotor experiences of daily living versus placebo. Given that score 
changes were numerically small, the clinical implications of this effect remain
unclear. © 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545629  [PubMed - in process]


930. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):500-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26123. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel in advanced Parkinson's disease: Final
12-month, open-label results.

Fernandez HH(1), Standaert DG, Hauser RA, Lang AE, Fung VS, Klostermann F, Lew
MF, Odin P, Steiger M, Yakupov EZ, Chouinard S, Suchowersky O, Dubow J, Hall CM, 
Chatamra K, Robieson WZ, Benesh JA, Espay AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurological Restoration, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Motor complications in Parkinson's disease (PD) are associated with long-term
oral levodopa treatment and linked to pulsatile dopaminergic stimulation.
l-dopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is delivered continuously by percutaneous 
endoscopic gastrojejunostomy tube (PEG-J), which reduces l-dopa-plasma-level
fluctuations and can translate to reduced motor complications. We present final
results of the largest international, prospective, 54-week, open-label LCIG
study. PD patients with severe motor fluctuations (>3 h/day "off" time) despite
optimized therapy received LCIG monotherapy. Additional PD medications were
allowed >28 days post-LCIG initiation. Safety was the primary endpoint measured
through adverse events (AEs), device complications, and number of completers.
Secondary endpoints included diary-assessed off time, "on" time with/without
troublesome dyskinesia, UPDRS, and health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL)
outcomes. Of 354 enrolled patients, 324 (91.5%) received PEG-J and 272 (76.8%)
completed the study. Most AEs were mild/moderate and transient; complication of
device insertion (34.9%) was the most common. Twenty-seven (7.6%) patients
withdrew because of AEs. Serious AEs occurred in 105 (32.4%), most commonly
complication of device insertion (6.5%). Mean daily off time decreased by 4.4
h/65.6% (P < 0.001). On time without troublesome dyskinesia increased by 4.8
h/62.9% (P < 0.001); on time with troublesome dyskinesia decreased by 0.4 h/22.5%
(P = 0.023). Improvements persisted from week 4 through study completion. UPDRS
and HRQoL outcomes were also improved throughout. In the advanced PD population, 
LCIG's safety profile consisted primarily of AEs associated with the
device/procedure, l-dopa/carbidopa, and advanced PD. LCIG was generally well
tolerated and demonstrated clinically significant improvements in motor function,
daily activities, and HRQoL sustained over 54 weeks. © 2014 The Authors. Movement
Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 The Authors. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on
behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545465  [PubMed - in process]


931. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):560-6. doi: 10.1002/mds.26117. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Vitamin D from different sources is inversely associated with Parkinson disease.

Wang L(1), Evatt ML, Maldonado LG, Perry WR, Ritchie JC, Beecham GW, Martin ER,
Haines JL, Pericak-Vance MA, Vance JM, Scott WK.

Author information: 
(1)John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami, Miller
School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA; Dr. John T. Macdonald Foundation
Department of Human Genetics, University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, Florida, USA.

An inverse association between Parkinson disease (PD) and total vitamin D levels 
has been reported, but whether vitamin D from different sources, that is,
25(OH)D2 (from diet and supplements) and 25(OH)D3 (mainly from sunlight
exposure), all contribute to the association is unknown. Plasma total 25(OH)D,
25(OH)D2, and 25(OH)D3 levels were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry in PD patients (n = 478) and controls (n = 431). Total 25(OH)D was
categorized by clinical insufficiency or deficiency; 25(OH)D2 and 25(OH)D3 were
analyzed in quartiles. Vitamin D deficiency (total 25[OH]D < 20 ng/mL) and
vitamin D insufficiency (total 25[OH]D < 30 ng/mL) are associated with PD risk
(odds ratio [OR] = 2.6 [deficiency] and 2.1 [insufficiency]; P < 0.0001),
adjusting for age, sex, and sampling season. Both 25(OH)D2 and 25(OH)D3 levels
are inversely associated with PD (Ptrend  < 0.0001). The association between
25(OH)D2 and PD risk is largely confined to individuals with low 25(OH)D3 levels 
(Ptrend  = 0.0008 and 0.12 in individuals with 25[OH]D3 < 20 ng/mL and
25[OH]D3 ≥ 20 ng/mL, respectively). Our data confirm the association between
vitamin D deficiency and PD, and for the first time demonstrate an inverse
association of 25(OH)D2 with PD. Given that 25(OH)D2 concentration is independent
of sunlight exposure, this new finding suggests that the inverse association
between vitamin D levels and PD is not simply attributable to lack of sunlight
exposure in PD patients with impaired mobility. The current study, however,
cannot exclude the possibility that gastrointestinal dysfunction, a non-motor PD 
symptom, contributes to the lower vitamin D2 levels in PD patients. © 2014
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMCID: PMC4390412 [Available on 2016-04-01]
PMID: 25545356  [PubMed - in process]


932. Mov Disord. 2015 Apr;30(4):584-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26114. Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Selective changes of ocular vestibular myogenic potentials in Parkinson's
disease.

Pötter-Nerger M(1), Govender S, Deuschl G, Volkmann J, Colebatch JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian-Albrecht-University, Kiel, Germany;
Department of Neurology, University Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany; Prince
of Wales Clinical School and Neuroscience Research Australia, University New
South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Vestibular evoked myogenic potentials represent electrophysiological 
tools to measure vestibular reflex actions at different levels of the brainstem
in Parkinson's disease.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate cervical and ocular vestibular myogenic potentials in
Parkinsonian patients with mild disability.
METHODS: In 13 Parkinsonian patients and 13 age-matched healthy controls,
cervical and ocular vestibular myogenic potentials were recorded after unilateral
air-conducted tone bursts and bone-conducted stimuli delivered at the forehead or
mastoids.
RESULTS: In contrast to relatively preserved cervical vestibular evoked myogenic 
potentials, ocular vestibular evoked myogenic potentials were significantly
delayed and of reduced amplitude, particularly after impulsive stimulation in
Parkinsonian patients. Levodopa had no significant effect on either type of
response.
CONCLUSION: In mild to moderate Parkinson's disease, altered ocular vestibular
myogenic potentials may indicate early functional involvement of the upper
brainstem, in contrast to preserved lower brainstem function as reflected by
normal cervical vestibular myogenic potentials. © 2014 International Parkinson
and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25545048  [PubMed - in process]


933. Neurology. 2014 Nov 11;83(20):1879-80.

Author response.

Bronstein JM, Fitzmaurice A.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2014 Nov 11;83(20):1879-80.
    Neurology. 2014 Feb 4;82(5):419-26.

PMID: 25544982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Palliat Support Care. 2014 Dec 29:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

"Running Water Won't Freeze": How people with advanced Parkinson's disease
experience occupation.

Murdock C(1), Cousins W(1), Kernohan WG(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Ulster, Institute of Nursing and Health
Research,Jordanstown,Northern Ireland,United Kingdom.

Objective: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition 
often resulting in significant disability and impacting on one's ability to
participate in an occupation. The present study aimed to explore how people with 
advanced Parkinson's disease experience the phenomenon of occupation in their
daily lives in order to inform the practice of occupational therapy in palliative
care. Method: Using a phenomenological approach, in-depth interviews were
undertaken with a purposive sample of 10 people in the advanced stages of
Parkinson's disease. These interviews were audiotaped, transcribed verbatim, and 
subsequently analyzed using a thematic content analysis approach. The study
received approval from the relevant university ethics committee, as well as the
research network of Parkinson's UK. Results: The experience of occupation emerged
as being physical, psychological, social, and spiritual with related subthemes.
Within each of these themes, participants described their experience of
occupation that they valued and that were important to their daily lives. They
also identified the strategies they employed to continue participating in certain
occupations and described others they were no longer able to engage in and the
impact of that loss. Significance of Results: Participants' experiences crossed
the domains of palliative care and suggest that adopting a palliative care
approach would enhance an enhanced quality of life, experienced in terms of
meaningful and valuable occupation. Disruption to participation in occupation
caused them distress and frustration, suggesting that access to
occupation-focused therapy would significantly improve quality of life for people
with PD. As there is a strong link between the ethos of occupational therapy and 
palliative care, it is proposed that there is a valuable role for occupational
therapy intervention to play within palliative care.

PMID: 25543958  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


935. Environ Res. 2015 Feb;137:157-69. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.12.012. Epub 2014
Dec 23.

Megacities air pollution problems: Mexico City Metropolitan Area critical issues 
on the central nervous system pediatric impact.

Calderón-Garcidueñas L(1), Kulesza RJ(2), Doty RL(3), D'Angiulli A(4),
Torres-Jardón R(5).

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Structural and Functional Neurosciences, The University of
Montana, Missoula, MT, USA. Electronic address:
lilian.calderon-garciduenas@umontana.edu. (2)Auditory Research Center, Lake Erie 
College of Osteopathic Medicine, Erie, PA, USA. (3)Smell and Taste Center,
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1S
5B6. (5)Centro de Ciencias de la Atmósfera, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
México, Mexico City, Mexico.

The chronic health effects associated with sustained exposures to high
concentrations of air pollutants are an important issue for millions of megacity 
residents and millions more living in smaller urban and rural areas. Particulate 
matter (PM) and ozone (O3) concentrations close or above their respective air
quality standards during the last 20 years affect 24 million people living in the
Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). Herein we discuss PM and O3 trends in MCMA 
and their possible association with the observed central nervous system (CNS)
effects in clinically healthy children. We argue that prenatal and postnatal
sustained exposures to a natural environmental exposure chamber contribute to
detrimental neural responses. The emerging picture for MCMA children shows
systemic inflammation, immunodysregulation at both systemic and brain levels,
oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, small blood vessel pathology, and an
intrathecal inflammatory process, along with the early neuropathological
hallmarks for Alzheimer and Parkinson's diseases. Exposed brains are briskly
responding to their harmful environment and setting the bases for structural and 
volumetric changes, cognitive, olfactory, auditory and vestibular deficits and
long term neurodegenerative consequences. We need to improve our understanding of
the PM pediatric short and long term CNS impact through multidisciplinary
research. Public health benefit can be achieved by integrating interventions that
reduce fine PM levels and pediatric exposures and establishing preventative
screening programs targeting pediatric populations that are most at risk. We
fully expect that the health of 24 million residents is important and blocking
pediatric air pollution research and hiding critical information that ought to be
available to our population, health, education and social workers is not in the
best interest of our children.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25543546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J Neurol Sci. 2015 Jan 15;348(1-2):231-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2014.12.014. Epub
2014 Dec 18.

Altered neuronal activity in the primary motor cortex and globus pallidus after
dopamine depletion in rats.

Wang M(1), Li M(2), Geng X(2), Song Z(3), Albers HE(3), Yang M(2), Zhang X(2),
Xie J(2), Qu Q(2), He T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance of Shandong Province, College of Life
Science, Shandong Normal University, Jinan 250014, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: wangmin78@yahoo.com. (2)Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance
of Shandong Province, College of Life Science, Shandong Normal University, Jinan 
250014, People's Republic of China. (3)Center for Behavioral Neuroscience,
Neuroscience Institute, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA 30302, United
States.

The involvement of dopamine (DA) neuron loss in the etiology of Parkinson's
disease has been well documented. The neural mechanisms underlying the effects of
DA loss and the resultant motor dysfunction remain unknown. To gain insights into
how loss of DA disrupts the electrical processes in the cortico-subcortical
network, the present study explores the effects of DA neuron depletion on
electrical activity in the primary motor cortex (M1), on the external and the
internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPe and GPi respectively), and on their 
temporal relationships. Comparison of local field potentials (LFPs) in these
brain regions from unilateral hemispheric DA neuron depleted rats and
neurologically intact rats revealed that the spectrum power of LFPs in 12-70Hz
(for M1, and GPe) and in 25-40Hz (for GPi) was significantly greater in the DA
depleted rats than that in the control group. These changes were associated with 
a shortening of latency in LFP activities between M1 and GPe, from several
hundred milliseconds in the intact animals to close to zero in the DA depleted
animals. LFP oscillations in M1 were significantly more synchronized with those
in GPe in the DA depleted rats compared with those in the control rats. By
contrast, the synchronization of oscillation in LFP activities between M1 and GPi
did not differ between the DA depleted and intact rats. Not surprisingly, rats
that had DA neuron depletion spent more time along the ladder compared with the
control rats. These data suggest that enhanced oscillatory activity and increased
synchronization of LFPs may contribute to movement impairment in the rat model of
Parkinson's disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25542079  [PubMed - in process]


937. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Dec 12;113(24):242002. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

Precision measurement of the mass and lifetime of the Ξb⁻ baryon.

Aaij R, Adeva B, Adinolfi M, Affolder A, Ajaltouni Z, Akar S, Albrecht J, Alessio
F, Alexander M, Ali S, Alkhazov G, Alvarez Cartelle P, Alves AA Jr, Amato S,
Amerio S, Amhis Y, An L, Anderlini L, Anderson J, Andreassen R, Andreotti M,
Andrews JE, Appleby RB, Aquines Gutierrez O, Archilli F, Artamonov A, Artuso M,
Aslanides E, Auriemma G, Baalouch M, Bachmann S, Back JJ, Badalov A, Baesso C,
Baldini W, Barlow RJ, Barschel C, Barsuk S, Barter W, Batozskaya V, Battista V,
Bay A, Beaucourt L, Beddow J, Bedeschi F, Bediaga I, Belogurov S, Belous K,
Belyaev I, Ben-Haim E, Bencivenni G, Benson S, Benton J, Berezhnoy A, Bernet R,
Bettler MO, van Beuzekom M, Bien A, Bifani S, Bird T, Bizzeti A, Bjørnstad PM,
Blake T, Blanc F, Blouw J, Blusk S, Bocci V, Bondar A, Bondar N, Bonivento W,
Borghi S, Borgia A, Borsato M, Bowcock TJ, Bowen E, Bozzi C, Brambach T, Brett D,
Britsch M, Britton T, Brodzicka J, Brook NH, Brown H, Bursche A, Buytaert J,
Cadeddu S, Calabrese R, Calvi M, Calvo Gomez M, Campana P, Campora Perez D,
Carbone A, Carboni G, Cardinale R, Cardini A, Carson L, Carvalho Akiba K, Casse
G, Cassina L, Castillo Garcia L, Cattaneo M, Cauet Ch, Cenci R, Charles M,
Charpentier P, Chefdeville M, Chen S, Cheung SF, Chiapolini N, Chrzaszcz M, Cid
Vidal X, Ciezarek G, Clarke PE, Clemencic M, Cliff HV, Closier J, Coco V, Cogan
J, Cogneras E, Cogoni V, Cojocariu L, Collazuol G, Collins P, Comerma-Montells A,
Contu A, Cook A, Coombes M, Coquereau S, Corti G, Corvo M, Counts I, Couturier B,
Cowan GA, Craik DC, Cruz Torres M, Cunliffe S, Currie R, D'Ambrosio C, Dalseno J,
David P, David PN, Davis A, De Bruyn K, De Capua S, De Cian M, De Miranda JM, De 
Paula L, De Silva W, De Simone P, Dean CT, Decamp D, Deckenhoff M, Del Buono L,
Déléage N, Derkach D, Deschamps O, Dettori F, Di Canto A, Dijkstra H, Donleavy S,
Dordei F, Dorigo M, Dosil Suárez A, Dossett D, Dovbnya A, Dreimanis K, Dujany G, 
Dupertuis F, Durante P, Dzhelyadin R, Dziurda A, Dzyuba A, Easo S, Egede U,
Egorychev V, Eidelman S, Eisenhardt S, Eitschberger U, Ekelhof R, Eklund L, El
Rifai I, Elsasser Ch, Ely S, Esen S, Evans HM, Evans T, Falabella A, Färber C,
Farinelli C, Farley N, Farry S, Fay RF, Ferguson D, Fernandez Albor V, Ferreira
Rodrigues F, Ferro-Luzzi M, Filippov S, Fiore M, Fiorini M, Firlej M, Fitzpatrick
C, Fiutowski T, Fol P, Fontana M, Fontanelli F, Forty R, Francisco O, Frank M,
Frei C, Frosini M, Fu J, Furfaro E, Gallas Torreira A, Galli D, Gallorini S,
Gambetta S, Gandelman M, Gandini P, Gao Y, García Pardiñas J, Garofoli J, Garra
Tico J, Garrido L, Gascon D, Gaspar C, Gauld R, Gavardi L, Geraci A, Gersabeck E,
Gersabeck M, Gershon T, Ghez P, Gianelle A, Gianì S, Gibson V, Giubega L,
Gligorov VV, Göbel C, Golubkov D, Golutvin A, Gomes A, Gotti C, Grabalosa Gándara
M, Graciani Diaz R, Granado Cardoso LA, Graugés E, Graverini E, Graziani G, Grecu
A, Greening E, Gregson S, Griffith P, Grillo L, Grünberg O, Gui B, Gushchin E,
Guz Y, Gys T, Hadjivasiliou C, Haefeli G, Haen C, Haines SC, Hall S, Hamilton B, 
Hampson T, Han X, Hansmann-Menzemer S, Harnew N, Harnew ST, Harrison J, He J,
Head T, Heijne V, Hennessy K, Henrard P, Henry L, Hernando Morata JA, van
Herwijnen E, Heß M, Hicheur A, Hill D, Hoballah M, Hombach C, Hulsbergen W, Hunt 
P, Hussain N, Hutchcroft D, Hynds D, Idzik M, Ilten P, Jacobsson R, Jaeger A,
Jalocha J, Jans E, Jaton P, Jawahery A, Jing F, John M, Johnson D, Jones CR,
Joram C, Jost B, Jurik N, Kandybei S, Kanso W, Karacson M, Karbach TM, Karodia S,
Kelsey M, Kenyon IR, Ketel T, Khanji B, Khurewathanakul C, Klaver S, Klimaszewski
K, Kochebina O, Kolpin M, Komarov I, Koopman RF, Koppenburg P, Korolev M,
Kozlinskiy A, Kravchuk L, Kreplin K, Kreps M, Krocker G, Krokovny P, Kruse F,
Kucewicz W, Kucharczyk M, Kudryavtsev V, Kurek K, Kvaratskheliya T, La Thi VN,
Lacarrere D, Lafferty G, Lai A, Lambert D, Lambert RW, Lanfranchi G, Langenbruch 
C, Langhans B, Latham T, Lazzeroni C, Le Gac R, van Leerdam J, Lees JP, Lefèvre
R, Leflat A, Lefrançois J, Leo S, Leroy O, Lesiak T, Leverington B, Li Y,
Likhomanenko T, Liles M, Lindner R, Linn C, Lionetto F, Liu B, Lohn S, Longstaff 
I, Lopes JH, Lopez-March N, Lowdon P, Lucchesi D, Luo H, Lupato A, Luppi E,
Lupton O, Machefert F, Machikhiliyan IV, Maciuc F, Maev O, Malde S, Malinin A,
Manca G, Mancinelli G, Mapelli A, Maratas J, Marchand JF, Marconi U, Marin Benito
C, Marino P, Märki R, Marks J, Martellotti G, Martín Sánchez A, Martinelli M,
Martinez Santos D, Martinez Vidal F, Martins Tostes D, Massafferri A, Matev R,
Mathe Z, Matteuzzi C, Maurin B, Mazurov A, McCann M, McCarthy J, McNab A, McNulty
R, McSkelly B, Meadows B, Meier F, Meissner M, Merk M, Milanes DA, Minard MN,
Moggi N, Molina Rodriguez J, Monteil S, Morandin M, Morawski P, Mordà A, Morello 
MJ, Moron J, Morris AB, Mountain R, Muheim F, Müller K, Mussini M, Muster B, Naik
P, Nakada T, Nandakumar R, Nasteva I, Needham M, Neri N, Neubert S, Neufeld N,
Neuner M, Nguyen AD, Nguyen TD, Nguyen-Mau C, Nicol M, Niess V, Niet R, Nikitin
N, Nikodem T, Novoselov A, O'Hanlon DP, Oblakowska-Mucha A, Obraztsov V, Oggero
S, Ogilvy S, Okhrimenko O, Oldeman R, Onderwater CJ, Orlandea M, Otalora
Goicochea JM, Otto A, Owen P, Oyanguren A, Pal BK, Palano A, Palombo F, Palutan
M, Panman J, Papanestis A, Pappagallo M, Pappalardo LL, Parkes C, Parkinson CJ,
Passaleva G, Patel GD, Patel M, Patrignani C, Pearce A, Pellegrino A, Pepe
Altarelli M, Perazzini S, Perret P, Perrin-Terrin M, Pescatore L, Pesen E,
Petridis K, Petrolini A, Picatoste Olloqui E, Pietrzyk B, Pilař T, Pinci D,
Pistone A, Playfer S, Plo Casasus M, Polci F, Poluektov A, Polycarpo E, Popov A, 
Popov D, Popovici B, Potterat C, Price E, Price JD, Prisciandaro J, Pritchard A, 
Prouve C, Pugatch V, Puig Navarro A, Punzi G, Qian W, Rachwal B, Rademacker JH,
Rakotomiaramanana B, Rama M, Rangel MS, Raniuk I, Rauschmayr N, Raven G, Redi F, 
Reichert S, Reid MM, dos Reis AC, Ricciardi S, Richards S, Rihl M, Rinnert K,
Rives Molina V, Robbe P, Rodrigues AB, Rodrigues E, Rodriguez Perez P, Roiser S, 
Romanovsky V, Romero Vidal A, Rotondo M, Rouvinet J, Ruf T, Ruiz H, Ruiz Valls P,
Saborido Silva JJ, Sagidova N, Sail P, Saitta B, Salustino Guimaraes V, Sanchez
Mayordomo C, Sanmartin Sedes B, Santacesaria R, Santamarina Rios C, Santovetti E,
Sarti A, Satriano C, Satta A, Saunders DM, Savrina D, Schiller M, Schindler H,
Schlupp M, Schmelling M, Schmidt B, Schneider O, Schopper A, Schubiger M, Schune 
MH, Schwemmer R, Sciascia B, Sciubba A, Semennikov A, Sepp I, Serra N, Serrano J,
Sestini L, Seyfert P, Shapkin M, Shapoval I, Shcheglov Y, Shears T, Shekhtman L, 
Shevchenko V, Shires A, Silva Coutinho R, Simi G, Sirendi M, Skidmore N,
Skillicorn I, Skwarnicki T, Smith NA, Smith E, Smith E, Smith J, Smith M, Snoek
H, Sokoloff MD, Soler FJ, Soomro F, Souza D, Souza De Paula B, Spaan B, Spradlin 
P, Sridharan S, Stagni F, Stahl M, Stahl S, Steinkamp O, Stenyakin O, Stevenson
S, Stoica S, Stone S, Storaci B, Stracka S, Straticiuc M, Straumann U, Stroili R,
Subbiah VK, Sun L, Sutcliffe W, Swientek K, Swientek S, Syropoulos V, Szczekowski
M, Szczypka P, Szumlak T, T'Jampens S, Teklishyn M, Tellarini G, Teubert F,
Thomas C, Thomas E, van Tilburg J, Tisserand V, Tobin M, Todd J, Tolk S,
Tomassetti L, Tonelli D, Topp-Joergensen S, Torr N, Tournefier E, Tourneur S,
Tran MT, Tresch M, Trisovic A, Tsaregorodtsev A, Tsopelas P, Tuning N, Ubeda
Garcia M, Ukleja A, Ustyuzhanin A, Uwer U, Vacca C, Vagnoni V, Valenti G, Vallier
A, Vazquez Gomez R, Vazquez Regueiro P, Vázquez Sierra C, Vecchi S, Velthuis JJ, 
Veltri M, Veneziano G, Vesterinen M, Viaud B, Vieira D, Vieites Diaz M,
Vilasis-Cardona X, Vollhardt A, Volyanskyy D, Voong D, Vorobyev A, Vorobyev V,
Voß C, de Vries JA, Waldi R, Wallace C, Wallace R, Walsh J, Wandernoth S, Wang J,
Ward DR, Watson NK, Websdale D, Whitehead M, Wicht J, Wiedner D, Wilkinson G,
Williams MP, Williams M, Wilschut HW, Wilson FF, Wimberley J, Wishahi J, Wislicki
W, Witek M, Wormser G, Wotton SA, Wright S, Wyllie K, Xie Y, Xing Z, Xu Z, Yang
Z, Yuan X, Yushchenko O, Zangoli M, Zavertyaev M, Zhang L, Zhang WC, Zhang Y,
Zhelezov A, Zhokhov A, Zhong L; LHCb Collaboration.

We report on measurements of the mass and lifetime of the Ξ(b)⁻ baryon using
about 1800 Ξ(b)⁻ decays reconstructed in a proton-proton collision data set
corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 3.0  fb⁻¹ collected by the LHCb
experiment. The decays are reconstructed in the Ξ(b)⁻→Ξ(c)⁰π⁻, Ξ(c)⁰→pK⁻K⁻π⁺
channel and the mass and lifetime are measured using the Λ(b)⁰→Λ(c)⁺π⁻ mode as a 
reference. We measure M(Ξ(b)⁻)-M(Λ(b)⁰)=178.36±0.46±0.16  MeV/c²,
(τ(Ξ(b)⁻)/τ(Λ(b)⁰)=1.089±0.026±0.011, where the uncertainties are statistical and
systematic, respectively. These results lead to a factor of 2 better precision on
the Ξ(b)⁻ mass and lifetime compared to previous best measurements, and are
consistent with theoretical expectations.

PMID: 25541768  [PubMed - in process]


938. FEBS Lett. 2015 Jan 30;589(3):319-25. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2014.12.014. Epub
2014 Dec 23.

Inhibition of miR-34b and miR-34c enhances α-synuclein expression in Parkinson's 
disease.

Kabaria S(1), Choi DC(1), Chaudhuri AD(1), Mouradian MM(1), Junn E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative and Neuroimmunologic Diseases, Department of
Neurology, Rutgers - Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, NJ 08854,
USA. (2)Center for Neurodegenerative and Neuroimmunologic Diseases, Department of
Neurology, Rutgers - Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, NJ 08854,
USA. Electronic address: junneu@rwjms.rutgers.edu.

Mounting evidence suggests that microRNA (miR) dysregulation contributes to
neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD). MiR-34b and
miR-34c have been previously shown to be down-regulated in the brains of patients
with PD. Here, we demonstrate that miR-34b and miR-34c repress the expression of 
α-synuclein (α-syn), a key protein in PD pathogenesis. Inhibition of miR-34b and 
miR-34c expression in human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells increased α-syn levels and
stimulated aggregate formation. Additionally, a single nucleotide polymorphism
(SNP) in the 3'-UTR of α-syn was found to lower the miR-34b-mediated repression
of the protein. Our results suggest that down-regulation of miR-34b and miR-34c
in the brain, as well as an SNP in the 3'-UTR of α-syn can increase α-syn
expression, possibly contributing to PD pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2014 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4306645 [Available on 2016-01-30]
PMID: 25541488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2015 Mar;60:130-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biocel.2014.12.005.
Epub 2014 Dec 23.

Urocortin--from Parkinson's disease to the skeleton.

Lawrence KM(1), Jackson TR(2), Jamieson D(3), Stevens A(4), Owens G(2), Sayan
BS(2), Locke IC(5), Townsend PA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty Institute for Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre, St Mary's Hospital, Research Floor, Oxford Road, 
Manchester M13 9WL, UK; Manchester Centre for Cellular Metabolism, FMHS, UoM, M13
9WL, UK. Electronic address: kevin.lawrence@manchester.ac.uk. (2)Faculty
Institute for Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester Academic
Health Science Centre, St Mary's Hospital, Research Floor, Oxford Road,
Manchester M13 9WL, UK; Manchester Centre for Cellular Metabolism, FMHS, UoM, M13
9WL, UK. (3)Faculty of Life Sciences, Michael Smith Building, University of
Manchester, M13 9WL, UK; Biorelate Ltd, Manchester, UK. (4)Faculty of Medical and
Human Sciences, University of Manchester and Royal Manchester Children's
Hospital, Manchester M13 9WL, UK. (5)Department of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Westminster, 115 New Cavendish Street, London W1W 6UW, UK.

Urocortin (Ucn 1), a 40 amino acid long peptide related to corticotropin
releasing factor (CRF) was discovered 19 years ago, based on its sequence
homology to the parent molecule. Its existence was inferred in the CNS because of
anatomical and pharmacological discrepancies between CRF and its two receptor
subtypes. Although originally found in the brain, where it has opposing actions
to CRF and therefore confers stress-coping mechanisms, Ucn 1 has subsequently
been found throughout the periphery including heart, lung, skin, and immune
cells. It is now well established that this small peptide is involved in a
multitude of physiological and pathophysiological processes, due to its receptor 
subtype distribution and promiscuity in second messenger signalling pathways. As 
a result of extensive studies in this field, there are now well over one thousand
peer reviewed publications involving Ucn 1. In this review, we intend to
highlight some of the less well known actions of Ucn 1 and in particular its role
in neuronal cell protection and maintenance of the skeletal system, both by
conventional methods of reviewing the literature and using bioinformatics, to
highlight further associations between Ucn 1 and disease conditions.
Understanding how Ucn 1 works in these tissues, will help to unravel its role in 
normal and pathophysiological processes. This would ultimately allow the
generation of putative medical interventions for the alleviation of important
diseases such as Parkinson's disease, arthritis, and osteoporosis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25541373  [PubMed - in process]


940. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):297-9. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.10.016. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Parkinson's disease severity and use of dopaminergic medications.

Fang JY(1), Pérez A(2), Christine CW(3), Leehey M(4), Aminoff MJ(5), Boyd JT(6), 
Morgan JC(7), Dhall R(8), Nicholas AP(9), Bodis-Wollner I(10), Zweig RM(11),
Goudreau JL(12); NINDS NET-PD Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University, 1161 21st Ave South, A-0118,
Nashville, TN 37232, USA. Electronic address: john.y.fang@vanderbilt.edu.
(2)UTHealth, The University of Texas School of Public Health, Austin Regional
Campus, University of Texas Administration Building (UTA), 1616 Guadalupe Street,
Suite 6.300, Austin, TX 78701, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, University of
California at San Francisco, 400 Parnassus Ave, Box 0348, San Francisco, CA
94143, USA. (4)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado School of
Medicine, Academic Office 1, Mail Stop B-185, 12631 East 17th Avenue, Aurora, CO 
80045, USA. (5)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of
California at San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Ave, Box 0114, San Francisco, CA
94143-0114, USA. (6)Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Vermont
College of Medicine, 1 South Prospect Street, Burlington, VT 05401, USA.
(7)Movement and Cognitive Disorders Center, Department of Neurology, Medical
College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, 1429 Harper Street, HF-1154,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA. (8)Barrow Neurological Institute, 240 W Thomas Road,
Suite 301, Phoenix, AZ 85013, USA. (9)Department of Neurology, University of
Alabama at Birmingham and The Birmingham VA Medical Center, 1720 2nd Avenue
South, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. (10)Department of Neurology, State University
of New York, Downstate Medical Center, 450 Clarkson Ave, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA;
Department of Ophthalmology, State University of New York, Downstate Medical
Center, 450 Clarkson Ave, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA. (11)Department of Neurology,
LSU Health Sciences Center in Shreveport, 1501 King's Highway, Shreveport, LA
71130, USA. (12)Department of Neurology, Michigan State University, 804 Service
Rd, Room A217, USA.

BACKGROUND: The effects of dopaminergic therapy in parkinson's disease (PD) can
vary depending on the class of medication selected.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this post hoc study was to determine if the class of
dopaminergic therapy correlated with disease severity in persons with early,
treated PD.
METHODS: A non-parametric global statistical test (GST) was used to assess the
status of participants treated with dopamine agonist (DA) monotherapy, levodopa
(LD) monotherapy or combined LD and DA therapy on multiple PD outcomes
encompassing motor, cognitive, psychiatric and autonomic function, as well as
disability and quality of life.
RESULTS: The outcomes measured at the beginning of the study showed lower disease
burden for participants on initial DA monotherapy compared to those taking
combined LD and DA therapy after controlling for age, education, taking cog-meds 
and amantadine.
CONCLUSION: This observation suggests that clinicians treating early PD patients 
favor combined LD and DA therapy in patients with more disabling features over DA
monotherapy. As such, studies of PD progression in treated PD patients may be
affected by the class of symptomatic dopaminergic therapy.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMCID: PMC4340731 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25541182  [PubMed - in process]


941. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Mar 15;281:215-21. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.12.035. Epub
2014 Dec 23.

Protective role of SIRT5 against motor deficit and dopaminergic degeneration in
MPTP-induced mice model of Parkinson's disease.

Liu L(1), Peritore C(1), Ginsberg J(1), Shih J(1), Arun S(1), Donmez G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA
02111, USA. (2)Department of Neuroscience, Tufts University School of Medicine,
Boston, MA 02111, USA. Electronic address: Gizem.Donmez@tufts.edu.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive loss of nigrostriatal
dopaminergic neurons that results in motor deficits including resting tremor,
rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability. Despite decades of intensive
study, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. Multiple
lines of evidence indicate that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress
contribute to neuronal death, which is the key feature of neurodegeneration.
Mitochondria are pivotal organelles that host essential functions in neuronal
viability including energy production, oxidative phosphorylation, calcium
buffering, redox homeostasis and apoptosis. SIRT5, which localizes in the
mitochondrial matrix, is nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+))-dependent
histone deacetylase. The physiological and pathophysiological functions of SIRT5 
in vivo remain elusive although it is known to be an important energy sensor.
Here, we investigated the role of SIRT5 in the pathogenesis of PD mice induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). We present evidence that
SIRT5 deficiency, by itself, does not affect motor and non-motor functions;
however, lack of SIRT5 exacerbates MPTP-induced motor deficits. Consistently,
MPTP-exposed SIRT5 knockout mice exhibited more severe nigrostriatal dopaminergic
degeneration than that observed in wild-type controls. Furthermore, deletion of
SIRT5 leads to a larger decrease, relative to control, in the expression level of
manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2), a mitochondria-specific antioxidant
enzyme, after MPTP induction. These findings indicate that SIRT5 ameliorates
MPTP-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration via preserving mitochondrial
antioxidant capacity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25541039  [PubMed - in process]


942. Neurology. 2015 Jan 27;84(4):399-406. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001189. Epub
2014 Dec 24.

Reorganization of corticostriatal circuits in healthy G2019S LRRK2 carriers.

Helmich RC(1), Thaler A(2), van Nuenen BF(2), Gurevich T(2), Mirelman A(2),
Marder KS(2), Bressman S(2), Orr-Urtreger A(2), Giladi N(2), Bloem BR(2), Toni
I(2); LRRK2 Ashkenazi Jewish Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)From the Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging (R.C.H., I.T.), Donders Institute
for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen; Department of
Neurology (R.C.H., B.R.B.), Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour,
Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Movement Disorders 
Unit, Department of Neurology (A.T., T.G., A.M., N.G.), and Genetic Institute
(A.O.-U.), Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center; Sackler School of Medicine (A.T.,
T.G., A.O.-U., N.G.), Tel Aviv University, Israel; Department of Neurology
(B.F.L.v.N.), Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, the Netherlands; Columbia University
(K.S.M.), Columbia University Medical Center, New York; and Beth Israel Medical
Center (S.B.), New York, NY. rick.helmich@radboudumc.nl. (2)From the Centre for
Cognitive Neuroimaging (R.C.H., I.T.), Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and
Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen; Department of Neurology (R.C.H., B.R.B.),
Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Medical 
Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Movement Disorders Unit, Department of
Neurology (A.T., T.G., A.M., N.G.), and Genetic Institute (A.O.-U.), Tel Aviv
Sourasky Medical Center; Sackler School of Medicine (A.T., T.G., A.O.-U., N.G.), 
Tel Aviv University, Israel; Department of Neurology (B.F.L.v.N.), Catharina
Hospital, Eindhoven, the Netherlands; Columbia University (K.S.M.), Columbia
University Medical Center, New York; and Beth Israel Medical Center (S.B.), New
York, NY.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated system-level corticostriatal changes in a human model 
of premotor Parkinson disease (PD), i.e., healthy carriers of the G2019S LRRK2
mutation that is associated with a markedly increased, age-dependent risk of
developing PD.
METHODS: We compared 37 asymptomatic LRRK2 G2019S mutation carriers (age range
30-78 years) with 32 matched, asymptomatic nonmutation carriers (age range 30-74 
years). Using fMRI, we tested the hypothesis that corticostriatal connectivity in
premotor PD shifts from severely affected to less affected striatal subregions,
as shown previously in symptomatic PD. Specifically, we predicted that in
premotor PD, the shift in corticostriatal connectivity would follow the same
gradient of striatal dopamine depletion known from overt PD, with the
dorsoposterior putamen being more affected than the ventroanterior putamen.
RESULTS: The known parallel topology of corticostriatal loops was preserved in
each group, but the topography of putamen connectivity shifted. In LRRK2 G2019S
mutation carriers, the right inferior parietal cortex had reduced functional
connectivity with the dorsoposterior putamen but increased connectivity with the 
ventroanterior putamen, as compared with noncarriers. This shift in functional
connectivity increased with age in LRRK2 G2019S mutation carriers.
CONCLUSIONS: Asymptomatic LRRK2 G2019S mutation carriers show a reorganization of
corticostriatal circuits that mirrors findings in idiopathic PD. These changes
may reflect premotor basal ganglia dysfunction or circuit-level compensatory
changes.

© 2014 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4336002 [Available on 2016-01-27]
PMID: 25540317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Neurology. 2015 Jan 27;84(4):415-20. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001184. Epub 2014
Dec 24.

Low-frequency stimulation of STN-DBS reduces aspiration and freezing of gait in
patients with PD.

Xie T(1), Vigil J(2), MacCracken E(2), Gasparaitis A(2), Young J(2), Kang W(2),
Bernard J(2), Warnke P(2), Kang UJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Neurology (T.X., J.Y., J.B.), Radiology (A.G.), and
Neurosurgery (P.W.), and Speech and Swallowing Section, Department of Surgery
(J.V., E.M.), University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago; Center for Research
Informatics (W.K.), University of Chicago, Chicago, IL; and Department of
Neurology (U.J.K.), Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY.
txie@neurology.bsd.uchicago.edu. (2)From the Departments of Neurology (T.X.,
J.Y., J.B.), Radiology (A.G.), and Neurosurgery (P.W.), and Speech and Swallowing
Section, Department of Surgery (J.V., E.M.), University of Chicago Medicine,
Chicago; Center for Research Informatics (W.K.), University of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL; and Department of Neurology (U.J.K.), Columbia University Medical Center, New
York, NY.

OBJECTIVES: To study whether 60-Hz stimulation, compared with routine 130 Hz,
improves swallowing function and freezing of gait (FOG) in patients with
Parkinson disease (PD) who undergo bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain
stimulation (DBS).
METHODS: We studied 7 patients with PD who experienced FOG that persisted despite
routine 130-Hz stimulation and dopaminergic medication. Each patient received 3
modified barium swallow (MBS) studies in a single day under 3 DBS conditions in
the medication-on state: 130 Hz, 60 Hz, or DBS off, in a randomized double-blind 
manner. The laryngeal penetration and aspiration events were cautiously assessed,
and a swallowing questionnaire was completed. The Unified Parkinson's Disease
Rating Scale, Part III motor score, axial subscore, tremor subscore, and FOG by a
questionnaire and stand-walk-sit test were also assessed. The best DBS condition 
(60 Hz here) producing the least FOG was maintained for 3 to 8 weeks, and
patients were assessed again. Changes in measurements between the 60 Hz and 130
Hz were analyzed using paired t test, with swallowing function as primary and the
remainder as secondary outcomes. Changes between other DBS conditions were
further explored with Bonferroni correction.
RESULTS: Compared with the routine 130 Hz, 60-Hz stimulation significantly
reduced aspiration frequency by 57% on MBS study and perceived swallowing
difficulty by 80% on questionnaire. It also significantly reduced FOG, and axial 
and parkinsonian symptoms. The benefits at 60-Hz stimulation persisted over the
average 6-week assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the routine 130 Hz, the 60-Hz stimulation
significantly improved swallowing function, FOG, and axial and parkinsonian
symptoms in patients with PD treated with bilateral STN-DBS, which persisted over
the 6-week study period.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class IV evidence that for
patients with PD who experience FOG, STN-DBS at 60 Hz decreases aspiration events
observed during MBS compared with DBS at 130 Hz.

© 2014 American Academy of Neurology.

PMCID: PMC4336001 [Available on 2016-01-27]
PMID: 25540305  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Brain. 2015 Mar;138(Pt 3):653-63. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu369. Epub 2014 Dec 23.

Imaging acetylcholinesterase density in peripheral organs in Parkinson's disease 
with 11C-donepezil PET.

Gjerløff T(1), Fedorova T(1), Knudsen K(1), Munk OL(1), Nahimi A(1), Jacobsen
S(1), Danielsen EH(2), Terkelsen AJ(2), Hansen J(3), Pavese N(4), Brooks DJ(4),
Borghammer P(5).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Centre, Aarhus University Hospital,
Denmark. (2)2 Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark. (3)3 
Department of Health Science and Technology, Aalborg University, Denmark. (4)1
Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Centre, Aarhus University Hospital,
Denmark 4 Division of Brain Sciences, Imperial College, London, UK. (5)1
Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Centre, Aarhus University Hospital,
Denmark perborgh@rm.dk.

Parkinson's disease is associated with early parasympathetic dysfunction leading 
to constipation and gastroparesis. It has been suggested that pathological
α-synuclein aggregations originate in the gut and ascend to the brainstem via the
vagus. Our understanding of the pathogenesis and time course of parasympathetic
denervation in Parkinson's disease is limited and would benefit from a validated 
imaging technique to visualize the integrity of parasympathetic function. The
positron emission tomography tracer 5-[(11)C]-methoxy-donepezil was recently
validated for imaging acetylcholinesterase density in the brain and peripheral
organs. Donepezil is a high-affinity ligand for acetylcholinesterase-the enzyme
that catabolizes acetylcholine in cholinergic synapses. Acetylcholinesterase
histology has been used for many years for visualizing cholinergic neurons. Using
5-[(11)C]-methoxy-donepezil positron emission tomography, we studied 12 patients 
with early-to-moderate Parkinson's disease (three female; age 64 ± 9 years) and
12 age-matched control subjects (three female; age 62 ± 8 years). We collected
clinical information about motor severity, constipation, gastroparesis, and other
parameters. Heart rate variability measurements and gastric emptying
scintigraphies were performed in all subjects to obtain objective measures of
parasympathetic function. We detected significantly decreased (11)C-donepezil
binding in the small intestine (-35%; P = 0.003) and pancreas (-22%; P = 0.001)
of the patients. No correlations were found between the (11)C-donepezil signal
and disease duration, severity of constipation, gastric emptying time, and heart 
rate variability. In Parkinson's disease, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus
undergoes severe degeneration and pathological α-synuclein aggregations are also 
seen in nerve fibres innervating the gastro-intestinal tract. In contrast, the
enteric nervous system displays little or no loss of cholinergic neurons.
Decreases in (11)C-donepezil binding may, therefore, represent a marker of
parasympathetic denervation of internal organs, but further validation studies
are needed.

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25539902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. PeerJ. 2014 Dec 11;2:e687. doi: 10.7717/peerj.687. eCollection 2014.

Arterial spin labeling versus BOLD in direct challenge and drug-task interaction 
pharmacological fMRI.

Stewart SB(1), Koller JM(2), Campbell MC(3), Black KJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine , St Louis,
MO , USA ; Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine , St
Louis, MO , USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of
Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA. (3)Department of Neurology, Washington University 
School of Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA ; Department of Radiology, Washington
University School of Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA. (4)Department of Psychiatry, 
Washington University School of Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA ; Department of
Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA ;
Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine , St Louis, MO 
, USA ; Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA ; Division of Biology and Biomedical Sciences,
Washington University School of Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA.

A carefully controlled study allowed us to compare the sensitivity of ASL
(arterial spin labeling) and BOLD (blood oxygen level dependent) fMRI for
detecting the effects of the adenosine A2a antagonist tozadenant in Parkinson
disease. The study compared the effect of drug directly or the interaction of the
drug with a cognitive task. Only ASL detected the direct effect of tozadenant.
BOLD was more sensitive to the cognitive task, which (unlike most drugs) allows
on-off comparisons over short periods of time. Neither ASL nor BOLD could detect 
a cognitive-pharmacological interaction. These results are consistent with the
known relative advantages of each fMRI method, and suggest that for drug
development, directly imaging pharmacodynamic effects with ASL may have
advantages over cognitive-pharmacological interaction BOLD, which has hitherto
been the more common approach to pharmacological fMRI.

PMCID: PMC4266850
PMID: 25538867  [PubMed]


946. Front Neurosci. 2014 Dec 5;8:397. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00397. eCollection
2014.

The emerging role of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in neurodegenerative diseases.

Al-Mahdawi S(1), Virmouni SA(1), Pook MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ataxia Research Group, Division of Biosciences, Department of Life Sciences,
College of Health and Life Sciences, Brunel University London, Uxbridge, UK ;
Synthetic Biology Theme, Institute of Environment, Health and Societies, Brunel
University London Uxbridge, UK.

DNA methylation primarily occurs within human cells as a 5-methylcytosine (5mC)
modification of the cytosine bases in CpG dinucleotides. 5mC has proven to be an 
important epigenetic mark that is involved in the control of gene transcription
for processes such as development and differentiation. However, recent studies
have identified an alternative modification, 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC),
which is formed by oxidation of 5mC by ten-eleven translocation (TET) enzymes.
The overall levels of 5hmC in the mammalian genome are approximately 10% of 5mC
levels, although higher levels have been detected in tissues of the central
nervous system (CNS). The functions of 5hmC are not yet fully known, but evidence
suggests that 5hmC may be both an intermediate product during the removal of 5mC 
by passive or active demethylation processes and also an epigenetic modification 
in its own right, regulating chromatin or transcriptional factors involved in
processes such as neurodevelopment or environmental stress response. This review 
highlights our current understanding of the role that 5hmC plays in
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (ALS), fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS),
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), Huntington's disease (HD), and Parkinson's disease
(PD).

PMCID: PMC4256999
PMID: 25538551  [PubMed]


947. World J Nucl Med. 2014 Sep;13(3):178-83. doi: 10.4103/1450-1147.144818.

Correlative (99m)tc-labeled tropane derivative single photon emission computer
tomography and clinical assessment in the staging of Parkinson disease.

Shinto AS(1), Antony J(1), Kamaleshwaran K(1), Vijayan K(2), Selvan A(2), Korde
A(3), Kameshwaran M(3), Samuel G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, KMCH, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Neurology, KMCH, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India. (3)Department of
Isotope Application and Radiopharmaceuticals Division, BARC, Mumbai, Maharashtra,
India.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder
characterized by a selective loss of dopamine in the striatum. Problems remain in
the accurate diagnosis of PD. The diagnosis of idiopathic PD is based on the
interpretation of clinical signs and symptoms could be incorrect at the time of
initial presentation. In vivo imaging of the dopaminergic system has the
potential to improve the diagnosis of PD in its early stages. The imaging of
dopamine transporter (DAT) with (99m)Tc-labeled tropane derivative (TRODAT-1)
single photon emission computer tomography/computer tomography (SPECT/CT) has
been proposed to be a valuable and feasible means of assessment of the integrity 
of dopamine neurons. The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential
usefulness of (99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 imaging in the evaluation of patients with PD and 
classify into different stages of the disease. SPECT imaging with
(99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 was conducted in 16 consecutive PD patients (9 men; 7 women) and
in 6 age matched healthy volunteers (4 men; 2 women). The images were obtained 3 
h after the intra-venous injection of the tracer. Specific uptake in the striatum
and its sub-regions, including the putamen and caudate nucleus was calculated and
the ratios of specific striatal binding to nonspecific occipital binding were
calculated. ANOVA with Dunnett C post-hoc analysis was conducted using SPSS 20. A
stepwise reduction in specific striatal uptake of (99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 with
increasing disease severity between healthy control versus Stage I versus Stage
II versus Stage III was found in PD patients (i.e., 3.77 vs. 2.56 vs. 1.57 vs.
0.63, P < 0.05). The changes were magnified by measurement of specific putaminal 
uptake (1.43 vs. 0.79 vs. 0.54 vs. 0.19, P < 0.05) and specific caudate uptake
(1.90 vs. 1.47 vs. 0.73 vs. 0.27, P < 0.05). No remarkable adverse reactions were
found in either healthy volunteers or PD patients during or after imaging.
(99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 is accurate and widely available for the assessment of DAT
activity, which might shed light on the integrity of the presynaptic
nigrostriatal function. Our preliminary study results confirm the potential of
using (99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 for DAT measurement, which is clinically important for the
staging of PD.

PMCID: PMC4262876
PMID: 25538489  [PubMed]


948. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):211-5. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.004. Epub 2014 Dec 16.

Prevalence and clinical correlates of drooling in Parkinson disease: a study on
518 Chinese patients.

Ou R(1), Guo X(1), Wei Q(1), Cao B(1), Yang J(1), Song W(1), Shao N(1), Zhao
B(1), Chen X(1), Shang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 610041
Chengdu, Sichuan, China. (2)Department of Neurology, West China Hospital, Sichuan
University, 610041 Chengdu, Sichuan, China. Electronic address:
hfshang2002@126.com.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence and clinical correlates of drooling in Chinese
patients with Parkinson disease (PD) are unknown.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis of 518 Chinese patients with PD was
conducted. Assessments included Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS), Non-Motor
Symptoms Scale (NMSS), Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale
(HAMA), PD Questionnaire-39 (PDQ-39), Frontal assessment battery (FAB) and
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA).
RESULTS: Two hundred and seventy-three PD patients (52.7%) reported drooling
(droolers). Drooling occurred more frequently in the late-onset PD patients than 
the early-onset PD patients (p < 0.05). Droolers had higher levodopa equivalent
daily doses, higher incidences of dysarthria, dysphagia and fluctuation, higher
scores for the UPDRS part III, NMSS, HAMD and HAMA, and higher scores for the
mobility, activities of daily life, stigma and communication subdomains of the
PDQ-39 than the non-droolers (p < 0.05). The percentage of benzhexol use in the
non-droolers was significantly higher than the droolers (p < 0.05). The FAB and
MoCA scores between the droolers and non-droolers were not different. The binary 
logistic regression analysis indicated that dysarthria, dysphagia, benzhexol use,
and a lower score for the naming domain of the MoCA were associated with
drooling.
CONCLUSIONS: Drooling is a relatively common disabling symptom in Chinese PD
patients. Patients with dysarthria, dysphagia and naming disorder are likely to
experience drooling. Drooling is not correlated with disease duration and motor
severity of PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25537930  [PubMed - in process]


949. Recent Pat CNS Drug Discov. 2014;9(3):173-80.

Liver growth factor as a tissue regenerating factor in neurodegenerative
diseases.

Gonzalo-Gobernado R, Calatrava-Ferreras L, Perucho J, Reimers D, Casarejos MJ,
Herranz AS, Jimenez-Escrig A, Diaz-Gil JJ, Bazan E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Neurobiologia- Investigacion, Instituto Ramon y Cajal de
Investigacion Sanitaria (IRYCIS). Madrid, 28034, Spain. eulalia.bazan@hrc.es.

Liver growth factor (LGF) is a hepatic mitogen purified by our group in 1986. In 
the following years we demonstrated its activity both in "in vivo" and "in vitro"
systems, stimulating hepatocytes mitogenesis as well as liver regeneration in
several models of liver injury. Furthermore, we established its chemical
composition (albumin-bilirubin complex) and its mitogenic actions in liver. From 
2000 onwards we used LGF as a tissue regenerating factor in several models of
extrahepatic diseases. The use of Liver growth factor as a neural tissue
regenerator has been recently protected (Patent No US 2014/8,642,551 B2). LGF
administration stimulates neurogenesis and neuron survival, promotes migration of
newly generated neurons, and induces the outgrowth of striatal dopaminergic
terminals in 6-hidroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Furthermore, LGF treatment raises
striatal dopamine levels and protects dopaminergic neurons in hemiparkinsonian
animals. LGF also stimulates survival of grafted foetal neural stem cells in the 
damaged striatum, reduces rotational behaviour and improves motor coordination.
Interestingly, LGF also exerts a neuroprotective role both in an experimental
model of cerebellar ataxia and in a model of Friedrich´s ataxia. Microglia seem
to be the cellular target of LGF in the CNS. Moreover, the activity of the factor
could be mediated by the stimulation of MAPK´s signalling pathway and by
regulating critical proteins for cell survival, such as Bcl-2 and phospho-CREB.
Since the factor shows neuroprotective and neurorestorative effects we propose
LGF as a patented novel therapeutic tool that may be useful for the treatment of 
Parkinson´s disease and cerebellar ataxias. Currently, our studies have been
extended to other neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (Patent No: 
US 2014/0113859 A1).

PMID: 25537484  [PubMed - in process]


950. Eur J Hum Genet. 2014 Dec 24. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2014.272. [Epub ahead of print]

The EuroBioBank Network: 10 years of hands-on experience of collaborative,
transnational biobanking for rare diseases.

Mora M(1), Angelini C(2), Bignami F(3), Bodin AM(4), Crimi M(5), Di Donato JH(6),
Felice A(7), Jaeger C(8), Karcagi V(9), LeCam Y(4), Lynn S(10), Meznaric M(11),
Moggio M(12), Monaco L(5), Politano L(13), de la Paz MP(14), Saker S(15),
Schneiderat P(16), Ensini M(10), Garavaglia B(17), Gurwitz D(18), Johnson D(19), 
Muntoni F(19), Puymirat J(20), Reza M(10), Voit T(21), Baldo C(22), Bricarelli
FD(23), Goldwurm S(24), Merla G(25), Pegoraro E(26), Renieri A(27), Zatloukal
K(28), Filocamo M(29), Lochmüller H(10).

Author information: 
(1)Muscle Cell Biology Lab, Neuromuscular Diseases and Neuroimmunolgy Unit,
Fondazione Istituto Neurologico C. Besta, Milano, Italy. (2)1] IRCCS Fondazione
San Camillo Hospital, Lido Venice, Italy [2] Department of Neurosciences, NPSRR
University of Padova, Padova, Italy. (3)GlaxoSmithKline, London, UK. (4)EURORDIS,
European Organisation for Rare Diseases, Paris, France. (5)Fondazione Telethon,
Milan, Italy. (6)3 C-R, Castelginest, France. (7)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics
and Malta BioBank, University of Malta, and Thalassaemia Clinic, Mater Dei
Hospital, Msida, Malta. (8)Hôpital Foch, Suresnes, France. (9)Department of
Molecular Genetics and Diagnostics, National Institute of Environmental Health,
Budapest, Hungary. (10)MRC Centre for Neuromuscular Diseases, Institute of
Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, International Centre for Life, Newcastle 
upon Tyne, UK. (11)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana,
Slovenia. (12)Neuromuscular Unit, IRCCS Foundation Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore
Policlinico, Dino Ferrari Centre, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. (13)Division
of Cardiomyology and Medical Genetics, Department of Experimental Medicine,
Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy. (14)Manuel Posada de la Paz,
Institute of Rare Diseases Research, IIER, ISCIII and Spain RDR & CIBERER,
Madrid, Spain. (15)GENETHON, DNA and Cell Bank, Evry, France. (16)Muscle Tissue
Culture Collection, Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Neurological Department,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, Munich, Germany. (17)Molecular
Neurogenetics Unit, Fondazione Istituto Neurologico C. Besta, Milano, Italy.
(18)Department of Human Molecular Genetics and Biochemistry, Sackler Faculty of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. (19)Dubowitz Neuromuscular
Centre, MRC Neuromuscular Centre at UCL Institute of Child Health, London, UK.
(20)Department of Human Genetics, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Quebec,
Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. (21)Inserm U974-Institute of Myology, University
Pierre and Marie Curie Paris 6, Paris, France. (22)Laboratorio di Genetica Umana,
E.O. Ospedali Galliera, Genova, Italy. (23)Dipartimento Ligure di Genetica, E.O. 
Ospedali Galliera, Genova, Italy. (24)Parkinson Institute, Istituti Clinici di
Perfezionamento, Milano, Italy. (25)Medical Genetics Unit, IRCCS Casa Sollievo
della Sofferenza Hospital, San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy. (26)Department of
Neurosciences, NPSRR University of Padova, Padova, Italy. (27)Division of Medical
Genetics, University of Siena, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Senese, Siena,
Italy. (28)Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(29)Centro di Diagnostica Genetica e Biochimica delle Malattie Metaboliche,
Istituto G. Gaslini, Genova, Italy.

The EuroBioBank (EBB) network (www.eurobiobank.org) is the first operating
network of biobanks in Europe to provide human DNA, cell and tissue samples as a 
service to the scientific community conducting research on rare diseases (RDs).
The EBB was established in 2001 to facilitate access to RD biospecimens and
associated data; it obtained funding from the European Commission in 2002 (5th
framework programme) and started operation in 2003. The set-up phase, during the 
EC funding period 2003-2006, established the basis for running the network; the
following consolidation phase has seen the growth of the network through the
joining of new partners, better network cohesion, improved coordination of
activities, and the development of a quality-control system. During this phase
the network participated in the EC-funded TREAT-NMD programme and was involved in
planning of the European Biobanking and Biomolecular Resources Research
Infrastructure. Recently, EBB became a partner of RD-Connect, an FP7 EU programme
aimed at linking RD biobanks, registries, and bioinformatics data. Within
RD-Connect, EBB contributes expertise, promotes high professional standards, and 
best practices in RD biobanking, is implementing integration with RD patient
registries and 'omics' data, thus challenging the fragmentation of international 
cooperation on the field.European Journal of Human Genetics advance online
publication, 24 December 2014; doi:10.1038/ejhg.2014.272.

PMID: 25537360  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


951. J Vet Intern Med. 2015 Jan;29(1):104-12. doi: 10.1111/jvim.12493. Epub 2014 Dec
24.

Evaluation of the effect of orally administered acid suppressants on intragastric
pH in cats.

Parkinson S(1), Tolbert K, Messenger K, Odunayo A, Brand M, Davidson G, Peters E,
Reed A, Papich MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, University of Tennessee College 
of Veterinary Medicine, Knoxville, TN.

BACKGROUND: Acid suppressant drugs are a mainstay of treatment for cats with
gastrointestinal erosion and ulceration. However, clinical studies have not been 
performed to compare the efficacy of commonly PO administered acid suppressants
in cats.
HYPOTHESIS/OBJECTIVES: To compare the effect of PO administered famotidine,
fractionated omeprazole tablet (fOT), and omeprazole reformulated paste (ORP) on 
intragastric pH in cats. We hypothesized that both omeprazole formulations would 
be superior to famotidine and placebo.
ANIMALS: Six healthy adult DSH colony cats.
METHODS: Utilizing a randomized, 4-way crossover design, cats received 0.88-1.26 
mg/kg PO q12h fOT, ORP, famotidine, and placebo (lactose capsules). Intragastric 
pH monitoring was used to continuously record intragastric pH for 96 hours
beginning on day 4 of treatment. Plasma omeprazole concentrations at steady state
(day 7) were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with
ultraviolet detection. Mean percentage time that intragastric pH was ≥ 3 and ≥ 4 
were compared among groups using ANOVA with a posthoc Tukey-Kramer test (α =
0.05).
RESULTS: The mean percentage time ± SD that intragastric pH was ≥ 3 was 68.4 ±
35.0% for fOT, 73.9 ± 23.2% for ORP, 42.8 ± 18.6% for famotidine, and 16.0 ±
14.2% for placebo. Mean ± SD plasma omeprazole concentrations were similar in
cats receiving fOT compared to those receiving ORP and in a range associated with
acid suppression reported in other studies.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: These results suggest that both omeprazole
formulations provide superior acid suppression in cats compared to famotidine or 
placebo. Fractionated enteric-coated OT is an effective acid suppressant despite 
disruption of the enteric coating.

Copyright © 2014 by the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.

PMID: 25537303  [PubMed - in process]


952. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2014 Nov;34(5-6):127-32.

[The therapeutic plasma concentrations of antiparkinson dopamine agonists and
their in vitro pharmacology at dopamine receptors].

[Article in Japanese]

Tadori Y, Kobayashi H.

This review discusses the relationship between therapeutic plasma concentrations 
of antiparkinson dopamine agonists (rotigotine, pergolide, cabergoline,
apomorphine, bromocriptine, ropinirole, pramipexole, and talipexole) and their in
vitro pharmacology at dopamine D1, D2 and D3 receptors. A significant correlation
was found between therapeutic plasma concentrations of these dopamine agonists
and their agonist potencies (EC50) at D2 receptors, although no such correlation 
existed at D1 or D3 receptors, suggesting that D2 receptors could be the primary 
and common target for the antiparkinson action of all dopamine agonists. However,
D1 receptor stimulation is also important for maintaining swallowing reflex,
bladder function and cognition. In particular, continuous D1 and D2 receptor
stimulation may be reduced to low levels among Parkinson's disease patients. Our 
findings revealed therapeutic plasma concentrations of rotigotine were similar to
its agonist potencies at both D1 and D2 receptors. Thus, rotigotine may be
beneficial for the treatment of Parkinson's disease patients in that this
dopamine agonist has the potential of continuous stimulation of both D1 and D2
receptors in the clinical setting.

PMID: 25536763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


953. J Appl Biomech. 2014 Dec 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Spatiotemporal Gait Patterns During Overt and Covert Evaluation in Patients With 
Parkinson´s Disease and Healthy Subjects: Is There a Hawthorne Effect?

Robles-García V(1), Corral-Bergantiños Y, Espinosa N, Jácome MA, García-Sancho C,
Cudeiro J, Arias P.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience and Motor Control Group, Faculty of Health Sciences.
INEF-Galicia, Universidade da Coruña and Institute of Biomedical Research of A
Coruña, Spain.

Parkinson's disease (PD) and aging lead to gait impairments. Some of the
disturbances of gait are focused on step-length, cadence and temporal variability
of gait-cycle. Under experimental conditions gait can be overtly evaluated, but
patients with PD are prone to expectancy effects, thus it seems relevant to
determine if such evaluation truly reflects the spontaneous gait pattern in such 
patients, and also in healthy-subjects. Thirty subjects (15 patients with PD and 
15 healthy-controls) were asked to walk using their natural, preferred gait
pattern. In half of the trials subjects were made aware that they were being
evaluated (Overt-Evaluation), while in the rest of trials the evaluation was
performed covertly (Covert-Evaluation). During Covert-Evaluation the gait pattern
was modified, in all groups. Gait speed was significantly increased (p=.022);
besides step cadence and average step-length were also significantly modified:
the average step-length increased (p=.002) and the cadence was reduced (p≤.001). 
Stride cycle-time variability was unchanged significantly (p=.084). These changes
were not significantly different if compared between elderly and young healthy
controls, either. Due to the small sample size a note of caution is in order;
however the significant results suggest that Covert-Evaluation of gait might be
considered to complement experimental evaluations of gait.

PMID: 25536440  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


954. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 23;9(12):e115043. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115043.
eCollection 2014.

Effect of maternal body mass index on hormones in breast milk: a systematic
review.

Andreas NJ(1), Hyde MJ(1), Gale C(1), Parkinson JR(1), Jeffries S(1), Holmes
E(2), Modi N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neonatal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Chelsea & Westminster
Hospital, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom. (2)Section of
Computational and Systems Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London,
Sir Alexander Fleming Building, South Kensington, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Maternal Body Mass Index (BMI) is positively associated with infant
obesity risk. Breast milk contains a number of hormones that may influence infant
metabolism during the neonatal period; these may have additional downstream
effects on infant appetite regulatory pathways, thereby influencing propensity
towards obesity in later life.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of studies examining the association
between maternal BMI and the concentration of appetite-regulating hormones in
breast milk.
METHOD: Pubmed was searched for studies reporting the association between
maternal BMI and leptin, adiponectin, insulin, ghrelin, resistin, obestatin,
Peptide YY and Glucagon-Like Peptide 1 in breast milk.
RESULTS: Twenty six studies were identified and included in the systematic
review. There was a high degree of variability between studies with regard to
collection, preparation and analysis of breast milk samples. Eleven of fifteen
studies reporting breast milk leptin found a positive association between
maternal BMI and milk leptin concentration. Two of nine studies investigating
adiponectin found an association between maternal BMI and breast milk adiponectin
concentration; however significance was lost in one study following adjustment
for time post-partum. No association was seen between maternal BMI and milk
adiponectin in the other seven studies identified. Evidence for an association
between other appetite regulating hormones and maternal BMI was either
inconclusive, or lacking.
CONCLUSIONS: A positive association between maternal BMI and breast milk leptin
concentration is consistently found in most studies, despite variable
methodology. Evidence for such an association with breast milk adiponectin
concentration, however, is lacking with additional research needed for other
hormones including insulin, ghrelin, resistin, obestatin, peptide YY and
glucagon-like peptide-1. As most current studies have been conducted with small
sample sizes, future studies should ensure adequate sample sizes and standardized
methodology.

PMCID: PMC4275218
PMID: 25536196  [PubMed - in process]


955. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2014 Nov;56(5):383-9. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2014.56.5.383.
Epub 2014 Nov 30.

Enhanced efficacy of human brain-derived neural stem cells by transplantation of 
cell aggregates in a rat model of Parkinson's disease.

Shin ES(1), Hwang O(2), Hwang YS(3), Suh JK(4), Chun YI(5), Jeon SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of 
Maxillofacial Biomedical Engineering, Institute of Oral Biology, School of
Dentistry, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Korea. (4)Center for Bionics of Korea
Institute of Science and Technology, Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of Neurosurgery,
Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Neural tissue transplantation has been a promising strategy for the
treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, transplantation has the
disadvantages of low-cell survival and/or development of dyskinesia.
Transplantation of cell aggregates has the potential to overcome these problems, 
because the cells can extend their axons into the host brain and establish
synaptic connections with host neurons. In this present study, aggregates of
human brain-derived neural stem cells (HB-NSC) were transplanted into a PD animal
model and compared to previous report on transplantation of single-cell
suspensions.
METHODS: Rats received an injection of 6-OHDA into the right medial forebrain
bundle to generate the PD model and followed by injections of PBS only, or HB-NSC
aggregates in PBS into the ipsilateral striatum. Behavioral tests, multitracer
(2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]-fluoro-D-glucose ([(18)F]-FDG) and
[(18)F]-N-(3-fluoropropyl)-2-carbomethoxy-3-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane
([(18)F]-FP-CIT) microPET scans, as well as immunohistochemical (IHC) and
immunofluorescent (IF) staining were conducted to evaluate the results.
RESULTS: The stepping test showed significant improvement of contralateral
forelimb control in the HB-NSC group from 6-10 weeks compared to the control
group (p<0.05). [(18)F]-FP-CIT microPET at 10 weeks posttransplantation
demonstrated a significant increase in uptake in the HB-NSC group compared to
pretransplantation (p<0.05). In IHC and IF staining, tyrosine hydroxylase and
human β2 microglobulin (a human cell marker) positive cells were visualized at
the transplant site.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the HB-NSC aggregates can survive in the
striatum and exert therapeutic effects in a PD model by secreting dopamine.

PMCID: PMC4272995
PMID: 25535514  [PubMed]


956. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jan 6;112(1):130-5. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1415261112. 
Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Superresolution microscopy reveals spatial separation of UCP4 and F0F1-ATP
synthase in neuronal mitochondria.

Klotzsch E(1), Smorodchenko A(2), Löfler L(3), Moldzio R(4), Parkinson E(3),
Schütz GJ(1), Pohl EE(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Applied Physics, Vienna University of Technology, A-1040 Vienna, 
Austria; and enricoklotzsch@gmail.com schuetz@iap.tuwien.ac.at
elena.pohl@vetmeduni.ac.at. (2)Institutes of Physiology, Pathophysiology and
Biophysics and. (3)Institute of Applied Physics, Vienna University of Technology,
A-1040 Vienna, Austria; and. (4)Medical Biochemistry, University of Veterinary
Medicine, A-1210 Vienna, Austria. (5)Institutes of Physiology, Pathophysiology
and Biophysics and enricoklotzsch@gmail.com schuetz@iap.tuwien.ac.at
elena.pohl@vetmeduni.ac.at.

Because different proteins compete for the proton gradient across the inner
mitochondrial membrane, an efficient mechanism is required for allocation of
associated chemical potential to the distinct demands, such as ATP production,
thermogenesis, regulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), etc. Here, we used
the superresolution technique dSTORM (direct stochastic optical reconstruction
microscopy) to visualize several mitochondrial proteins in primary mouse neurons 
and test the hypothesis that uncoupling protein 4 (UCP4) and F0F1-ATP synthase
are spatially separated to eliminate competition for the proton motive force. We 
found that UCP4, F0F1-ATP synthase, and the mitochondrial marker
voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) have various expression levels in
different mitochondria, supporting the hypothesis of mitochondrial heterogeneity.
Our experimental results further revealed that UCP4 is preferentially localized
in close vicinity to VDAC, presumably at the inner boundary membrane, whereas
F0F1-ATP synthase is more centrally located at the cristae membrane. The data
suggest that UCP4 cannot compete for protons because of its spatial separation
from both the proton pumps and the ATP synthase. Thus, mitochondrial morphology
precludes UCP4 from acting as an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylation but is
consistent with the view that UCP4 may dissipate the excessive proton gradient,
which is usually associated with ROS production.

PMCID: PMC4291679
PMID: 25535394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Feb;11(2):66. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.256. Epub 2014 Dec 
23.

Parkinson disease. Gut reactions--can changes in the intestinal microbiome
provide new insights into Parkinson disease?

Wood H.

Comment on
    Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):350-8.

PMID: 25534915  [PubMed - in process]


958. Sleep Med. 2015 Jan;16(1):186-9. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2014.08.014. Epub 2014 Nov 
13.

Diagnostic value of the REM sleep behavior disorder screening questionnaire in
Parkinson's disease.

Stiasny-Kolster K(1), Sixel-Döring F(2), Trenkwalder C(3), Heinzel-Gutenbrunner
M(4), Seppi K(5), Poewe W(5), Högl B(5), Frauscher B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Somnomar, Institute for Medical Research and Sleep Medicine, Marburg, Germany;
Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany. (2)Paracelsus-Elena Klinik, Kassel,
Germany. (3)Paracelsus-Elena Klinik, Kassel, Germany; University of Goettingen,
Goettingen, Germany. (4)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and
Psychotherapy, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany. (5)Department of Neurology,
Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. (6)Department of Neurology, 
Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. Electronic address:
birgit.frauscher@i-med.ac.at.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to validate the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior
disorder (RBD) screening questionnaire (RBDSQ) in 2 independent samples of
patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) using different settings when performing
the investigations.
METHODS: The RBDSQ was administered to two independent samples of 52 and 75
consecutive PD patients investigated with video-polysomnography (vPSG).
RESULTS: In sample A, the RBDSQ identified 46/52 (88.5%) patients correctly. In
sample B, 50/75 (66.7%) patients were identified correctly. Considering a cut-off
score of ≥ 5 as a positive test result, sample A showed a sensitivity of 0.90 and
a specificity of 0.87, sample B showed a sensitivity of 0.68 and a specificity of
0.63. Main differences between both groups were that patients of sample A
underwent a sleep history including RBD assessment prior to administration of the
RBDSQ, whereas in sample B the RBDSQ was administered during routine work-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic value of the RBDSQ strongly depends on the clinical
setting and may be influenced by the individual's awareness on RBD. This finding 
is a critical issue which deserves clarification before use of this and other
questionnaires can be recommended in epidemiological studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25534709  [PubMed - in process]


959. Eur J Neurol. 2015 Apr;22(4):640-7. doi: 10.1111/ene.12621. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Cognitive training in Parkinson's disease reduces cognitive decline in the long
term.

Petrelli A(1), Kaesberg S, Barbe MT, Timmermann L, Rosen JB, Fink GR, Kessler J, 
Kalbe E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Gerontology, Psychological Gerontology and Center for
Neuropsychological Diagnostics and Intervention CeNDI, University of Vechta,
Vechta, Germany; Department of Neurology, University Hospital Cologne, Cologne,
Germany.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are at high risk
for cognitive dysfunction. Non-pharmacological interventions have attracted
increasing interest for enhancing PD patients' cognitive functions.
METHODS: One-year follow-up data (T2 ) of a randomized controlled trial
evaluating two 6-week cognitive trainings - a structured (NEUROvitalis, NV) and
an unstructured (mentally fit, MF) program - compared with a waiting list control
group (CG) in non-demented PD patients (Hoehn and Yahr I-III) are presented.
Forty-seven PD patients were examined at T2 . Effects on overall cognitive
functions (Mini-Mental State Examination and DemTect) were compared between all
groups with repeated measurement analyses of variance. A combined score of the
percentage change value from baseline (T0 ) to T2 was calculated to identify
patients who retained or improved their cognitive state (responders). The risk of
developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) was analyzed.
RESULTS: Significant time × treatment effects on overall cognitive functions were
found for both training groups, each compared separately to the CG (DemTect,
P < 0.05). Nine patients (56.3%) of the NV group, seven (41.2%) of the MF group
and three (21.4%) of the CG were responders. Comparing NV to CG the odds ratio
was 4.7 [95% confidence interval (0.8; 33.3)], and comparing MF to CG it was 2.6 
[95% confidence interval (0.4; 17.4)]. MCI risk for patients without prior MCI
was 40.0% in CG, 18.2% in MF and 18.2% in NV. The odds ratio was 3 comparing NV
to CG, MF to CG.
DISCUSSION: This study gives evidence that cognitive training may be effective to
prevent cognitive decline and onset of MCI in PD patients.

© 2014 EAN.

PMID: 25534579  [PubMed - in process]


960. Clin Neurophysiol. 2014 Dec 4. pii: S1388-2457(14)00837-2. doi:
10.1016/j.clinph.2014.08.028. [Epub ahead of print]

TMS and drugs revisited 2014.

Ziemann U(1), Reis J(2), Schwenkreis P(3), Rosanova M(4), Strafella A(5), Badawy 
R(6), Müller-Dahlhaus F(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology & Stroke, and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain
Research, Eberhard-Karls-University Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. Electronic
address: ulf.ziemann@uni-tuebingen.de. (2)Department of Neurology,
Albert-Ludwigs-University Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. (3)Department of
Neurology, BG-University Hospital Bergmannsheil Bochum, Bochum, Germany.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences "Luigi Sacco", University of
Milan, Milan, Italy; Fondazione Europea di Ricerca Biomedica, FERB Onlus, Milan, 
Italy. (5)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorder Unit & E.J. Safra Parkinson
Disease Program, Toronto Western Hospital, UHN, University of Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; Research Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health,
University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (6)Department of Neurology, Saint
Vincent's Hospital, Fitzroy, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia; Department of Medicine, The University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria, Australia. (7)Department of Neurology & Stroke, and Hertie Institute
for Clinical Brain Research, Eberhard-Karls-University Tübingen, Tübingen,
Germany.

The combination of pharmacology and transcranial magnetic stimulation to study
the effects of drugs on TMS-evoked EMG responses (pharmaco-TMS-EMG) has
considerably improved our understanding of the effects of TMS on the human brain.
Ten years have elapsed since an influential review on this topic has been
published in this journal (Ziemann, 2004). Since then, several major developments
have taken place: TMS has been combined with EEG to measure TMS evoked responses 
directly from brain activity rather than by motor evoked potentials in a muscle, 
and pharmacological characterization of the TMS-evoked EEG potentials, although
still in its infancy, has started (pharmaco-TMS-EEG). Furthermore, the knowledge 
from pharmaco-TMS-EMG that has been primarily obtained in healthy subjects is now
applied to clinical settings, for instance, to monitor or even predict clinical
drug responses in neurological or psychiatric patients. Finally, pharmaco-TMS-EMG
has been applied to understand the effects of CNS active drugs on non-invasive
brain stimulation induced long-term potentiation-like and long-term
depression-like plasticity. This is a new field that may help to develop
rationales of pharmacological treatment for enhancement of recovery and
re-learning after CNS lesions. This up-dated review will highlight important
knowledge and recent advances in the contribution of pharmaco-TMS-EMG and
pharmaco-TMS-EEG to our understanding of normal and dysfunctional excitability,
connectivity and plasticity of the human brain.

Copyright © 2014 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published 
by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25534482  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


961. Eur J Neurol. 2015 Mar;22(3):540-6. doi: 10.1111/ene.12613. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Substantia nigra neuromelanin magnetic resonance imaging in de novo Parkinson's
disease patients.

Reimão S(1), Pita Lobo P, Neutel D, Correia Guedes L, Coelho M, Rosa MM, Ferreira
J, Abreu D, Gonçalves N, Morgado C, Nunes RG, Campos J, Ferreira JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Imaging Department, Hospital de Santa Maria - Centro Hospitalar
Lisboa Norte, Lisbon, Portugal; Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Instituto de Medicina
Molecular, Lisbon, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Depigmentation of the substantia nigra (SN) and locus coeruleus (LC) 
is a conspicuous pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD) and is related 
to the loss of neuromelanin, whose paramagnetic properties result in high signal 
on specific T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Recent studies have
suggested that neuromelanin decrease in the SN and LC of PD patients may emerge
as a possible diagnostic biomarker. The SN neuromelanin signal in de novo and
early stage PD patients was studied to assess its diagnostic accuracy. This is
the first study based on a semi-automated MRI analysis of the neuromelanin signal
in de novo PD patients.
METHODS: The inclusion criteria were untreated de novo PD and a 2-5 year disease 
duration; in addition, age matched healthy controls were enrolled. These were
studied with a high-resolution T1-weighted MRI sequence at 3 T to visualize
neuromelanin. The primary outcome was SN high signal area, length and
neuromelanin/midbrain ratio obtained with semi-automated methods.
RESULTS: A total of 12 de novo PD patients and 10 PD patients with a 2-5 year
disease duration were evaluated. The area, length of the SN T1 high signal and
the SN neuromelanin/midbrain ratio were markedly decreased in the PD groups
compared with age-matched controls, with a substantial overlap between the two PD
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Neuromelanin-sensitive MRI techniques can discriminate PD patients
from healthy individuals with high sensitivity and specificity. Our findings are 
consistent with recent findings showing that PD neuromelanin changes remain
stable during the course of the disease.

© 2014 EAN.

PMID: 25534480  [PubMed - in process]


962. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):179-83. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.017. Epub 2014 Nov 29.

Longitudinal midbrain changes in early Parkinson's disease: iron content
estimated from R2*/MRI.

Wieler M(1), Gee M(2), Martin WR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. (3)Division of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. Electronic address: wmartin@ualberta.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether, in patients with early Parkinson's disease (PD),
longitudinal changes in midbrain iron content are associated with declining motor
function over a period of three years.
METHODS: Nineteen untreated subjects with early PD and 13 age- and sex-matched
controls were followed clinically for 36 months. MRI with a 3 T magnet was
performed at baseline, 18 months and 36 months with a multiple gradient echo
sequence designed for rapid single-scan mapping of the proton transverse
relaxation rate R2*. R2* was calculated for midbrain and forebrain basal ganglia 
regions.
RESULTS: A difference in R2* between patients and controls was observed at
baseline (p = 0.035) but not at 18 or 36 months in the lateral substantia nigra
pars compacta (SNc). Linear regression indicated significant correlations between
the change in R2* in the lateral SNc and the change score in UPDRS III (p =
0.008) and the PDQ-39 -mobility sub-score (p = 0.03) from baseline to 36 months. 
R2* tended to increase in those with more advanced disease and to decrease in
those with milder disease.
CONCLUSIONS: High field MRI demonstrates lateral SNc abnormalities that progress 
over 3 years in early PD consistent with increased iron content in those with
more advanced disease, corresponding to the known distribution of neuronal loss
occurring in this disorder, and correlating with motor symptomatology. Larger and
longer investigations with more precise mapping of iron-containing midbrain
structures are needed to fully evaluate the potential of R2* as a biomarker of
disease progression in PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25534153  [PubMed - in process]


963. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):205-10. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.003. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Impaired detrusor contractility is the pathognomonic urodynamic finding of
multiple system atrophy compared to idiopathic Parkinson's disease.

Kim M(1), Jung JH(2), Park J(3), Son H(4), Jeong SJ(5), Oh SJ(6), Cho SY(7);
Seoul National University Experts Of Urodynamics Leading Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Seoul National University Hospital, 101 Daehak-ro,
Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-744, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
flytoyou@gmail.com. (2)Department of Urology, Seoul National University Hospital,
101 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-744, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
genejh@hanmail.net. (3)Department of Urology, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center,
Donggak-gu, Boramae-ro 5 Gil, 20, Seoul 156-707, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: insitu80@naver.com. (4)Department of Urology, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Donggak-gu, Boramae-ro 5 Gil, 20, Seoul 156-707, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: volley@snu.ac.kr. (5)Department of Urology, Seoul National
University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam-si, Bundang-gu, Gumi-ro 173 Gil, 82,
Kyunggi Province 463-707, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
urojsj@empal.com. (6)Department of Urology, Seoul National University Hospital,
101 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-744, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
sjo@snu.ac.kr. (7)Department of Urology, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center,
Donggak-gu, Boramae-ro 5 Gil, 20, Seoul 156-707, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: kmoretry@daum.net.

INTRODUCTION: To investigate differences in urodynamic parameters between two
groups: Parkinson's disease (PD) and multiple system atrophy (MSA) patients.
METHODS: A retrospective study was performed in patients with PD and MSA who
presented to three referral centers between 2005 and 2012. Patients referred to
the urology department for lower urinary tract symptoms underwent urodynamic
studies. Patients with other rare or ambiguous subtypes of PPS, urinary tract
infection, urinary stones, or other neurogenic conditions were excluded from the 
analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 581 consecutive patients (359 men and 222 women) were
analyzed. The mean patient age was 69.2 (SD, 9.3) years. Among these patients,
390 (64.3%) had PD, and 191 (31.5%) had MSA. Patients with MSA showed a
statistically significantly decreased maximal flow rate and increased post-void
residual urine volume compared with patients with PD (P range, <0.001-0.005). In 
addition, voiding failure occurred more frequently in patients with MSA than in
those with PD (odds ratio [OR] = 1.9; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.26-2.73).
Patients with MSA showed a higher prevalence of low-compliance (P = 0.001),
decreased bladder contractility (P < 0.001), and an increased rate of voiding
failure (P = 0.001). In patients with MSA, decreased detrusor contractility was
more prominent in the cerebellar ataxia predominant subtype (MSA-C; P = 0.038).
Multivariate analysis showed that the MSA subtype was the only independent risk
factor for impaired detrusor contractility (men, OR = 2.692; P = 0.006; women, OR
= 2.965; P = 0.007).
CONCLUSION: Impaired detrusor contractility was the pathognomonic urodynamic
finding that distinguished MSA from PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25534084  [PubMed - in process]


964. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Mar;21(3):300-2. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.12.006. Epub 2014 Dec 16.

The RIT2 and STX1B polymorphisms are associated with Parkinson's disease.

Wang JY(1), Gong MY(2), Ye YL(1), Ye JM(1), Lin GL(1), Zhuang QQ(1), Zhang X(3), 
Zhu JH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatrics & Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou 
Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325035, China. (2)Department of Preventive 
Medicine, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325035, China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics & Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou 
Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325035, China. Electronic address:
zhangxiong98@gmail.com. (4)Department of Geriatrics & Neurology, The Second
Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325035, China;
Department of Preventive Medicine, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 
325035, China. Electronic address: jianhong.zhu@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: GWAS meta-analysis identified RIT2 rs12456492 and STX1B rs4889603
as PD susceptible loci. While proteins encoded by the genes, in particular RIT2, 
may involve in PD pathogenesis, the association of these two variants with PD
remains to be further clarified.
METHODS: We enrolled a Chinese cohort comprising 537 PD patients and 517
controls, determined the genotypes of rs12456492 and rs4889603, and analyzed
these variants in relation to PD.
RESULTS: Both rs12456492 and rs4889603 were associated with PD susceptibility (P 
= 0.012 and 0.03, respectively). The G allele of rs12456492 and the A allele of
rs4889603 served as risk alleles toward PD. Statistical differences in genotype
distribution between the patients and controls were observed both in rs12456492
(marginal, P = 0.042 for GG vs. AG vs. AA) and in rs4889603 (P = 0.021 for AA +
AG vs.
GG) CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that the RIT2 and STX1B polymorphisms are
associated with PD etiology. The role of RIT2 in PD pathogenesis warrants further
mechanistical investigation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25534083  [PubMed - in process]


965. J Neurochem. 2015 Mar;132(6):703-12. doi: 10.1111/jnc.13015. Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Progressive brain metabolic changes under deep brain stimulation of subthalamic
nucleus in parkinsonian rats.

Melon C(1), Chassain C, Bielicki G, Renou JP, Kerkerian-Le Goff L, Salin P, Durif
F.

Author information: 
(1)Aix Marseille Université, CNRS, IBDM UMR 7288, Marseille, France.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an efficient
neurosurgical treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease. Non-invasive metabolic 
neuroimaging during the course of DBS in animal models may contribute to our
understanding of its action mechanisms. Here, DBS was adapted to in vivo proton
magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 11.7 T in the rat to follow metabolic changes 
in main basal ganglia structures, the striatum, and the substantia nigra pars
reticulata (SNr). Measurements were repeated OFF and ON acute and subchronic (7
days) STN-DBS in control and parkinsonian (6-hydroxydopamine lesion) conditions. 
Acute DBS reversed the increases in glutamate, glutamine, and GABA levels induced
by the dopamine lesion in the striatum but not in the SNr. Subchronic DBS
normalized GABA in both the striatum and SNr, and glutamate in the striatum.
Taurine levels were markedly decreased under subchronic DBS in the striatum and
SNr in both lesioned and unlesioned rats. Microdialysis in the striatum further
showed that extracellular taurine was increased. These data reveal that STN-DBS
has duration-dependent metabolic effects in the basal ganglia, consistent with
development of adaptive mechanisms. In addition to counteracting defects induced 
by the dopamine lesion, prolonged DBS has proper effects independent of the
pathological condition. Non-invasive metabolic neuroimaging might be useful to
understand the physiological mechanisms of deep brain stimulation (DBS). Here, we
demonstrate the feasibility of repeated high-field proton magnetic resonance
spectroscopy of basal ganglia structures under subthalamic nucleus DBS in control
and parkinsonian rats. Results show that DBS has both rapid and delayed effects
either dependent or independent of disease state.

© 2014 International Society for Neurochemistry.

PMID: 25533782  [PubMed - in process]


966. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Feb;74:392-405. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2014.12.006. Epub 2014 Dec
19.

Deep-brain stimulation associates with improved microvascular integrity in the
subthalamic nucleus in Parkinson's disease.

Pienaar IS(1), Lee CH(2), Elson JL(3), McGuinness L(4), Gentleman SM(4), Kalaria 
RN(5), Dexter DT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroinflammation & Neurodegeneration, Division of Brain Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital Campus, Du
Cane Road, London W12 0NN, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
i.pienaar@imperial.ac.uk. (2)The Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, South
Parks Road, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RE, United Kingdom. (3)Institute of
Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE1 3BZ, United
Kingdom; Centre for Human Metabonomics, North-West University, Potchefstroom,
South Africa. (4)Centre for Neuroinflammation & Neurodegeneration, Division of
Brain Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, Hammersmith
Hospital Campus, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, United Kingdom. (5)Institute of
Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Newcastle
upon Tyne NE4 5PL, United Kingdom.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become an
accepted treatment for motor symptoms in a subset of Parkinson's disease (PD)
patients. The mechanisms why DBS is effective are incompletely understood, but
previous studies show that DBS targeted in brain structures other than the STN
may modify the microvasculature. However, this has not been studied in PD
subjects who have received STN-DBS. Here we investigated the extent and nature of
microvascular changes in post-mortem STN samples from STN-DBS PD patients,
compared to aged controls and PD patients who had not been treated with STN-DBS. 
We used immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent methods to assess serial
STN-containing brain sections from PD and STN-DBS PD cases, compared to similar
age controls using specific antibodies to detect capillaries, an adherens
junction and tight junction-associated proteins as well as activated microglia.
Cellular features in stained sections were quantified by confocal fluorescence
microscopy and stereological methods in conjunction with in vitro imaging tools. 
We found significant upregulation of microvessel endothelial cell thickness,
length and density but lowered activated microglia density and striking
upregulation of all analysed adherens junction and tight junction-associated
proteins in STN-DBS PD patients compared to non-DBS PD patients and controls.
Moreover, in STN-DBS PD samples, expression of an angiogenic factor, vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF), was significantly upregulated compared to the
other groups. Our findings suggest that overexpressed VEGF and downregulation of 
inflammatory processes may be critical mechanisms underlying the DBS-induced
microvascular changes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25533682  [PubMed - in process]


967. Neuron. 2015 Jan 7;85(1):76-87. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2014.11.027. Epub 2014 Dec 
18.

Parkinson's disease genes VPS35 and EIF4G1 interact genetically and converge on
α-synuclein.

Dhungel N(1), Eleuteri S(2), Li LB(3), Kramer NJ(1), Chartron JW(4), Spencer
B(2), Kosberg K(2), Fields JA(5), Stafa K(5), Adame A(2), Lashuel H(6), Frydman
J(4), Shen K(3), Masliah E(7), Gitler AD(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA
94305, USA. (2)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of
California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. (3)Department of Biology,
Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. (4)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA; Department of Biology, Stanford University,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. (5)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine,
University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. (6)Laboratory of 
Molecular and Chemical Biology of Neurodegeneration, Brain Mind Institute,
Station 19, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne,
(EPFL) CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. (7)Department of Neurosciences, School of
Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA;
Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of California at San
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic address: emasliah@ucsd.edu.
(8)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA
94305, USA. Electronic address: agitler@stanford.edu.

Comment in
    Neuron. 2015 Jan 7;85(1):1-3.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder. Functional
interactions between some PD genes, like PINK1 and parkin, have been identified, 
but whether other ones interact remains elusive. Here we report an unexpected
genetic interaction between two PD genes, VPS35 and EIF4G1. We provide evidence
that EIF4G1 upregulation causes defects associated with protein misfolding.
Expression of a sortilin protein rescues these defects, downstream of VPS35,
suggesting a potential role for sortilins in PD. We also show interactions
between VPS35, EIF4G1, and α-synuclein, a protein with a key role in PD. We
extend our findings from yeast to an animal model and show that these
interactions are conserved in neurons and in transgenic mice. Our studies reveal 
unexpected genetic and functional interactions between two seemingly unrelated PD
genes and functionally connect them to α-synuclein pathobiology in yeast, worms, 
and mouse. Finally, we provide a resource of candidate PD genes for future
interrogation.VIDEO ABSTRACT:

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4289081 [Available on 2016-01-07]
PMID: 25533483  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2014 Sep;39(18):3493-8.

[Clinical and medicine characteristics of patients with Parkinson's syndrome].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu H, Xie YM, Yi DH, Wang YY.

This study analyze the characteristics and clinical medicine in 17 hospitals all 
over China, based on hospital information system diagnostic information database,
including 4 497 cases of hospitalized patients with Parkinson's syndrome. Results
indicate, the most common comorbidities are infarction, hypertension, coronary
heart disease, diabetes and lung infections, including cerebral infarction, the
combined incidence of hypertension in men reached 33.46% and 30.05%,
respectively, it is slightly lower in the females. Men with coronary heart
disease are more than women, women with diabetes and bone disease are more than
men. Combined incidence of the disease increases with age, vascular factors
occupy an important position. The most common combined diseases in patients with 
90 years of age or older are coronary heart disease, lung infection, and often
accompanied by metabolic disorders and nutritional emergency, critical care.
Constipation, depression, anxiety, sleep disorders, cognitive impairment are
common non-motor symptoms. The drug categories associated with Parkinson's core
symptoms treatment are about 20% to 30% of clinical medicine, the others are
associated with the treatment of combined disease, clinical medicine and disease 
spectrum consistent. Blood circulation topped Chinese agents applied frequency,
reaching 44.52%; laxative drugs accounted for 11.66%; detoxification agent
representing 9.46%. The first twenty Chinese medicine of the applying frequency
reached 56.07% of the total utilization, including 12 kinds of traditional
Chinese medicine injections, accounting for 60%. Therefore, in the diagnosis and 
treatment of Parkinsons syndrome, the treatment of comorbidities is very
important, more attentions should be paid to vascular factors of the disease,
Chinese medicine should be more concerned to improve the non-motor symptoms, give
full play to the pharmaceutical multi-target, the overall regulation of
advantages, integrative medicine, and improve the quality of life of patients.

PMID: 25532383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Voen Med Zh. 2014 Oct;335(10):30-3.

[Modern ideas about pain syndrome in Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Russian]

litvinenko IV, Bobkov AV.

The analysis of the literature dedicated to modern ideas and achievements in the 
study of the pathogenesis, the incidence and characteristics of the clinical
manifestations of pain syndromes in Parkinson's disease. It is shown that the
disease is characterized by a variety of painful phenomena, combining features of
the central and peripheral pain. Peripheral mechanisms of pain are realized as a 
consequence of mixed neuropathy (predominantly axonopathy) sensory and motor
fibers. When electroneuromyographic study found a reduction of the amplitude
sensory capacity, latency increase and decrease the speed of the pulse.

PMID: 25532309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2014 Nov 6. pii: S1064-7481(14)00327-3. doi:
10.1016/j.jagp.2014.10.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Increased Risk of Depression in Patients with Parkinson Disease: A Nationwide
Cohort Study.

Hsu YT(1), Liao CC(2), Chang SN(3), Yang YW(1), Tsai CH(1), Chen TL(4), Sung
FC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Neurology, China Medical University
Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan; School of Medicine, China Medical University,
Taichung, Taiwan. (2)Management Office for Health Data, China Medical University 
Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan; School of Chinese Medicine, China Medical University,
Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Anesthesiology, Taipei Medical University
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. (3)Management Office for Health Data, China Medical University Hospital, 
Taichung, Taiwan. (4)Department of Anesthesiology, Taipei Medical University
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. (5)Management Office for Health Data, China Medical University Hospital, 
Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Public Health, China Medical University,
Taichung, Taiwan. Electronic address: fcsung@mail.cmu.edu.tw.

OBJECTIVE: The association between Parkinson disease (PD) and depression remains 
unclear, particularly in the Asian population. The purpose of this study is to
investigate the risk of depression in patients with PD using population-based
data.
METHODS: Based on the National Health Insurance Research Database of Taiwan, we
identified 1,698 patients with PD aged 40 years or older diagnosed in 2000-2003. 
With frequency matching procedure, we randomly selected 6,792 subjects without PD
stratified by sex and age. Both cohorts were followed until the end of 2008 or
diagnosis of depression. Risk of depression associated with PD was estimated in
the multivariate Cox hazards regressions. Diabetes, hypertension, and
hyperlipidemia were more prevalent at baseline in patients with PD.
RESULTS: Compared with the cohort without PD, the hazard ratio (HR) for
depression in PD patients was 4.06 (95% CI: 3.15-5.23), which increased to 4.26
(95% CI: 3.29-5.51) after adjustment for age, sex, urbanization, income, and
coexisting medical conditions. In the sex stratification, the HR of depression
for men with PD was 4.42 (95% CI: 2.93-6.67) compared with men without PD. The HR
for the association between PD and depression in women was 4.22 (95% CI:
3.02-5.88).
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that patients with PD are at an elevated risk of 
depression, particularly for men. Integrated care for early identification and
treatment of depression are crucial for patients with PD.

Copyright © 2015 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25529799  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


971. Neurologia. 2014 Dec 16. pii: S0213-4853(14)00233-3. doi:
10.1016/j.nrl.2014.10.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Motor and non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease and their impact on quality
of life and on different clinical subgroups.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Berganzo K(1), Tijero B(2), González-Eizaguirre A(2), Somme J(3), Lezcano E(2),
Gabilondo I(2), Fernandez M(2), Zarranz JJ(2), Gómez-Esteban JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Grupo Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, Unidad de trastornos del movimiento y
disautonomía, BioCruces Health Research Institute, Barakaldo, Bizkaia, España.
Electronic address: koldo_ber@hotmail.com. (2)Grupo Enfermedades
Neurodegenerativas, Unidad de trastornos del movimiento y disautonomía, BioCruces
Health Research Institute, Barakaldo, Bizkaia, España. (3)Servicio de Neurología,
Hospital Universitario Álava, Vitoria-Gasteiz, España.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the present study is to analyse the influence that motor
and non-motor symptoms have on the quality of life (QoL) of patients with
Parkinson's disease (PD), and to study the relationship between the two types of 
symptoms.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 103 patients with PD
(55 men and 48 women). Quality of life was measured on the PDQ-39 scale. The
UPDRS scale (I-IV) was also used, and different items were grouped to analyse the
presence of tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and axial symptoms. The non-motor
symptoms scale (NMSS) was administered to assess non-motor symptoms. We performed
correlation analyses between different scales to analyse the influence of motor
and non-motor symptoms on QoL.
RESULTS: Correlations were observed between the PDQ-39 summary index (PDQ39_SI)
and the NMSS (correlation coefficient [cc], 0.56; p<.001), UPDRS III (cc, 0.44;
p< .001) and UPDRS IV (cc, 0.37; p<.001) scores. The strongest correlation was
between cognitive symptoms and mood. The analysis pointed to a direct
relationship between the NMSS score and axial symptoms (cc, 0.384; p<.01),
bradykinesia (cc, 0.299; p<.01), and to a lesser extent, rigidity (cc, 0.194;
p<.05). No relationship was observed between presence of tremor and the NMSS
score.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive symptoms and mood exert the most influence on QoL of
patients with PD. We found at least two phenotypes; one with predominantly axial 
symptoms, with significant involvement of non-motor symptoms, and a
tremor-associated phenotype in which these symptoms are less prevalent.

Copyright © 2014 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier Espana.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25529173  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


972. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Mar;1854(3):209-17. doi: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2014.12.014.
Epub 2014 Dec 18.

Ultrasonication-dependent formation and degradation of α-synuclein amyloid
fibrils.

Yagi H(1), Mizuno A(2), So M(2), Hirano M(2), Adachi M(2), Akazawa-Ogawa Y(3),
Hagihara Y(3), Ikenoue T(2), Lee YH(2), Kawata Y(4), Goto Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University, Yamadaoka 3-2, Suita, Osaka 
565-0871, Japan; Center for Research on Green Sustainable Chemistry, Tottori
University, Tottori 680-8552, Japan. (2)Institute for Protein Research, Osaka
University, Yamadaoka 3-2, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. (3)National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 1-8-31 Midorigaoka, Ikeda,
Osaka 563-8577, Japan. (4)Department of Chemistry and Biotechnology, Graduate
School of Engineering, Tottori University, Tottori 680-8552, Japan. (5)Institute 
for Protein Research, Osaka University, Yamadaoka 3-2, Suita, Osaka 565-0871,
Japan. Electronic address: ygoto@protein.osaka-u.ac.jp.

Ultrasonication can be used to break the supersaturation of α-synuclein, a
protein associated with Parkinson's disease, at pH7.4 above the critical
concentration of fibrillation, thereby inducing the formation of amyloid fibrils.
We speculated that ultrasonication could also be used to depolymerize preformed
fibrils below the critical concentration. However, extensive ultrasonic
irradiation transformed preformed fibrils into amorphous aggregates even above
the critical concentration. Exposing preformed fibrils to the hydrophobic
air-water interface of cavitation bubbles may have destabilized the fibrils and
stabilized amorphous aggregates. Upon extensive ultrasonic irradiation, the
accompanying decomposition of chemical structures was suggested when monitored by
analytical ultracentrifugation. Amorphous aggregates produced by extensive
ultrasonication showed higher cytotoxicity, suggesting that, although
ultrasonication might be a useful approach for inactivating amyloid fibrils,
potential cytotoxicity of amorphous aggregates should be considered.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25528988  [PubMed - in process]


973. Circ Arrhythm Electrophysiol. 2015 Feb;8(1):128-36. doi:
10.1161/CIRCEP.114.002373. Epub 2014 Dec 19.

Accessory atrioventricular pathways refractory to catheter ablation: role of
percutaneous epicardial approach.

Scanavacca MI(1), Sternick EB(2), Pisani C(2), Lara S(2), Hardy C(2), d'Ávila
A(2), Correa FS(2), Darrieux F(2), Hachul D(2), Marcial MB(2), Sosa EA(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Instituto do Coração, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil (M.I.S., C.P., S.L., C.H., F.D., D.H., M.B.M., E.A.S.); 
Biocor Instituto, Nova Lima, Brazil (E.B.S., F.S.C.); Instituto de Pós-Graduação,
Faculdade de Ciências Médicas de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil (E.B.S.);
and Hospital Cardiológico, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil (A.d'.A.).
mauricio.scanavacca@incor.usp.br. (2)From the Instituto do Coração, Faculdade de 
Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil (M.I.S., C.P., S.L., C.H.,
F.D., D.H., M.B.M., E.A.S.); Biocor Instituto, Nova Lima, Brazil (E.B.S.,
F.S.C.); Instituto de Pós-Graduação, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas de Minas
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil (E.B.S.); and Hospital Cardiológico,
Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil (A.d'.A.).

BACKGROUND: Epicardial mapping and ablation of accessory pathways through a
subxiphoid approach can be an alternative when endocardial or epicardial
transvenous mapping has failed.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed acute and long-term follow-up of 21 patients (14
males) referred for percutaneous epicardial accessory pathway ablation. There was
a median of 2 previous failed procedures. All patients were highly symptomatic, 8
had atrial fibrillation (3 with cardiac arrest) and 13 had frequent symptomatic
episodes of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia. Six patients (28.5%) had a
successful epicardial ablation. Five patients (23.8%) underwent a successful
repeated endocardial mapping, and ablation after epicardial mapping yielded no
early activation site. Epicardial mapping was helpful in guiding endocardial
ablation in 2 patients (9.5%), showing that the earliest activation was
simultaneous at the epicardium and endocardium. Four patients (19%) underwent
successful open-chest surgery after failing epicardial/endocardial ablation. Two 
patients (9.5%) remained controlled under antiarrhythmic drugs after unsuccessful
endocardial/epicardial ablation. Two patients had a coronary sinus diverticulum
and one a right atrium to right ventricle diverticulum. Three patients acquired
postablation coronary sinus stenosis. There was no major complication related to 
pericardial access.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous epicardial approach is an alternative when conventional
endocardial or transvenous epicardial ablation fails in the elimination of the
accessory pathway. A new attempt by endocardial approach was successful in a
significant number of patients. Open-chest surgery may be required in symptomatic
cases refractory to endocardial-epicardial approach.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

PMID: 25527824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


974. J Biol Chem. 2015 Jan 30;290(5):2798-811. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.620906. Epub 2014
Dec 19.

PINK1 kinase catalytic activity is regulated by phosphorylation on serines 228
and 402.

Aerts L(1), Craessaerts K(1), De Strooper B(2), Morais VA(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Center for the Biology of Disease, Flemish Institute for
Biotechnology (VIB) and Center for Human Genetics, Leuven Institute for
Neurodegenerative Disorders and University Hospitals Leuven, University of
Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium and. (2)From the Center for the Biology of Disease, 
Flemish Institute for Biotechnology (VIB) and Center for Human Genetics, Leuven
Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders and University Hospitals Leuven,
University of Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium and the University College London,
Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, United Kingdom. (3)From
the Center for the Biology of Disease, Flemish Institute for Biotechnology (VIB) 
and Center for Human Genetics, Leuven Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders
and University Hospitals Leuven, University of Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium and
Vanessa.Morais@cme.vib-kuleuven.be.

Mutations in the PINK1 gene cause early-onset recessive Parkinson disease. PINK1 
is a mitochondrially targeted kinase that regulates multiple aspects of
mitochondrial biology, from oxidative phosphorylation to mitochondrial clearance.
PINK1 itself is also phosphorylated, and this might be linked to the regulation
of its multiple activities. Here we systematically analyze four previously
identified phosphorylation sites in PINK1 for their role in autophosphorylation, 
substrate phosphorylation, and mitophagy. Our data indicate that two of these
sites, Ser-228 and Ser-402, are autophosphorylated on truncated PINK1 but not on 
full-length PINK1, suggesting that the N terminus has an inhibitory effect on
phosphorylation. We furthermore establish that phosphorylation of these PINK1
residues regulates the phosphorylation of the substrates Parkin and Ubiquitin.
Especially Ser-402 phosphorylation appears to be important for PINK1 function
because it is involved in Parkin recruitment and the induction of mitophagy.
Finally, we identify Thr-313 as a residue that is critical for PINK1 catalytic
activity, but, in contrast to previous reports, we find no evidence that this
activity is regulated by phosphorylation. These data clarify the regulation of
PINK1 through multisite phosphorylation.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4317039 [Available on 2016-01-30]
PMID: 25527497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


975. BMJ. 2014 Dec 19;349:g6258. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g6258.

Initial management of Parkinson's disease.

Goetz CG(1), Pal G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL 60612, USA. (2)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA gian_d_pal@rush.edu.

Parkinson's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders seen in
the United States and United Kingdom. The disease is characterised by two
processes-cellular degeneration and the resulting biochemical deficiency of
dopamine. Although these processes are inter-related, they are approached
separately in the clinical setting. Currently, no proven neuroprotective or
disease modifying treatment is available for Parkinson's disease. Several agents 
can be used to treat the motor symptoms associated with dopamine deficiency, and 
it is important to choose wisely when starting treatment. Drugs can have mild,
moderate, or high potency, and the patient's goals, comorbidities, and the short 
and long term implications of choosing a specific agent should be taken into
account when selecting the appropriate agent. Non-motor symptoms, such as
depression, fatigue, and disorders of sleep and wakefulness, also need to be
evaluated and treated. Research is under way to deliver dopaminergic therapy more
effectively, but studies aimed at slowing or stopping disease progression have
not shown promise.

© BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2014.

PMID: 25527341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Neurosurg. 2015 Feb;122(2):475-7. doi: 10.3171/2014.7.JNS141680. Epub 2014 Dec 
19.

SEEG has the lowest rate of complications.

Cardinale F(1), Cossu M.

Author information: 
(1)"Claudio Munari" Center for Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery, Niguarda Hospital,
Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2015 Feb;122(2):477-8.

Comment on
    J Neurosurg. 2014 Jun;120(6):1415-27.

PMID: 25526269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Accid Anal Prev. 2015 Feb;75:236-44. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2014.12.007. Epub 2014
Dec 16.

Cognitive functioning differentially predicts different dimensions of older
drivers' on-road safety.

Aksan N(1), Anderson SW(2), Dawson J(3), Uc E(4), Rizzo M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA. Electronic
address: Nazan-aksan@uiowa.edu. (2)Department of Neurology, University of Iowa,
Iowa City, IA, USA. (3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Iowa, Iowa
City, IA, USA. (4)Department of Neurology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA,
USA; Veteran's Administration Health Care System, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA; Department of
Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA;
Public Policy Center, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA; Neurological
Sciences, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA.

The extent to which deficits in specific cognitive domains contribute to older
drivers' safety risk in complex real-world driving tasks is not well understood. 
We selected 148 drivers older than 70 years of age both with and without
neurodegenerative diseases (Alzheimer disease-AD and Parkinson disease-PD) from
an existing driving database of older adults. Participant assessments included
on-road driving safety and cognitive functioning in visuospatial construction,
speed of processing, memory, and executive functioning. The standardized on-road 
drive test was designed to examine multiple facets of older driver safety
including navigation performance (e.g., following a route, identifying
landmarks), safety errors while concurrently performing secondary navigation
tasks ("on-task" safety errors), and safety errors in the absence of any
secondary navigation tasks ("baseline" safety errors). The inter-correlations of 
these outcome measures were fair to moderate supporting their distinctiveness.
Participants with diseases performed worse than the healthy aging group on all
driving measures and differences between those with AD and PD were minimal. In
multivariate analyses, different domains of cognitive functioning predicted
distinct facets of driver safety on road. Memory and set-shifting predicted
performance in navigation-related secondary tasks, speed of processing predicted 
on-task safety errors, and visuospatial construction predicted baseline safety
errors. These findings support broad assessments of cognitive functioning to
inform decisions regarding older driver safety on the road and suggest navigation
performance may be useful in evaluating older driver fitness and restrictions in 
licensing.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4386614 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25525974  [PubMed - in process]


978. Phys Ther. 2015 May;95(5):700-9. doi: 10.2522/ptj.20140090. Epub 2014 Dec 18.

Does perturbation-based balance training prevent falls? Systematic review and
meta-analysis of preliminary randomized controlled trials.

Mansfield A(1), Wong JS(2), Bryce J(3), Knorr S(4), Patterson KK(5).

Author information: 
(1)A. Mansfield, PhD, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, University Health
Network, 550 University Ave, Room 11-117, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 2A2; Brain
Sciences Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; and
Department of Physical Therapy and Graduate Department of Rehabilitation
Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
avril.mansfield@uhn.ca. (2)J.S. Wong, BSc, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute,
University Health Network, and Graduate Department of Rehabilitation Sciences,
University of Toronto. (3)J. Bryce, BSc, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute,
University Health Network. (4)S. Knorr, PhD, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute,
University Health Network. (5)K.K. Patterson, PhD, Toronto Rehabilitation
Institute, University Health Network; Department of Physical Therapy and Graduate
Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, University of Toronto; and School of
Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Western University, London,
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Older adults and individuals with neurological conditions are at an
increased risk for falls. Although physical exercise can prevent falls, certain
types of exercise may be more effective. Perturbation-based balance training is a
novel intervention involving repeated postural perturbations aiming to improve
control of rapid balance reactions.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to estimate the effect of
perturbation-based balance training on falls in daily life.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE (1946-July 2014), EMBASE (1974-July 2014), PEDro (all
dates), CENTRAL (1991-July 2014), and Google Scholar (all dates) were the data
sources used in this study.
STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials written in English were included if
they focused on perturbation-based balance training among older adults or
individuals with neurological conditions and collected falls data posttraining.
DATA EXTRACTION: Two investigators extracted data independently. Study authors
were contacted to obtain missing information. A PEDro score was obtained for each
study. Primary outcomes were proportion of participants who reported one or more 
falls (ie, number of "fallers") and the total number of falls. The risk ratio
(proportion of fallers) and rate ratio (number of falls) were entered into the
analysis.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Eight studies involving 404 participants were included.
Participants who completed perturbation-based balance training were less likely
to report a fall (overall risk ratio=0.71; 95% confidence interval=0.52, 0.96;
P=.02) and reported fewer falls than those in the control groups (overall rate
ratio=0.54; 95% confidence interval=0.34, 0.85; P=.007).
LIMITATIONS: Study authors do not always identify that they have included
perturbation training in their intervention; therefore, it is possible that some 
appropriate studies were not included. Study designs were heterogeneous,
preventing subanalyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Perturbation-based balance training appears to reduce fall risk
among older adults and individuals with Parkinson disease.

© 2015 American Physical Therapy Association.

PMID: 25524873  [PubMed - in process]


979. Phys Ther. 2014 Dec 18. [Epub ahead of print]

Investigating the Validity of the Environmental Framework Underlying the Original
and Modified Dynamic Gait Index.

Shumway-Cook A(1), Matsuda PN(2), Taylor C(3).

Author information: 
(1)A. Shumway-Cook, PT, PhD, FAPTA, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine,
Division of Physical Therapy, University of Washington, 1959 NE Pacific St, Box
356490, Seattle, WA 98195 (USA). (2)P.N. Matsuda, PT, PhD, DPT, Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Division of Physical Therapy, University of Washington. 
(3)C. Taylor, PhD, College of Education, University of Washington.

BACKGROUND: The modified Dynamic Gait Index (mDGI), developed from a
person-environment model of mobility disability, measures mobility function
relative to specific environmental demands. The framework for interpreting mDGI
scores relative to specific environmental dimensions has not been investigated.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the person-environmental model
underlying the development and interpretation of mDGI scores.
DESIGN: This was a cross-sectional, descriptive study.
METHODS: There were 794 participants in the study, including 140 controls. Out of
the total study population, 239 had sustained a stroke, 140 had vestibular
dysfunction, 100 had sustained a traumatic brain injury, 91 had gait abnormality,
and 84 had Parkinson disease. Exploratory factor analysis was used to investigate
whether mDGI scores supported the 4 environmental dimensions.
RESULTS: Factor analysis showed that, with some exceptions, tasks loaded on 4
underlying factors, partially supporting the underlying environmental model.
LIMITATIONS: A limitation of this study was the uneven sample sizes in the 6
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Support for the environmental framework underlying the mDGI extends 
its usefulness as a clinical measure of functional mobility by providing a
rationale for interpretation of scores that can be used to direct treatment and
infer change in mobility function.

© 2015 American Physical Therapy Association.

PMID: 25524870  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


980. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Feb 5;587:17-21. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2014.12.024. Epub 2014
Dec 15.

Level of plasma neuregulin-1 SMDF is reduced in patients with idiopathic
Parkinson's disease.

Hama Y(1), Yabe I(1), Wakabayashi K(2), Kano T(1), Hirotani M(1), Iwakura Y(3),
Utsumi J(4), Sasaki H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Hokkaido University,
Kita-15 Nishi-7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan. (2)Department of
Neuropathology, Institute of Brain Science, Hirosaki University Graduate School
of Medicine, 5 Zaifu-cho, Hirosaki 036-8203, Japan. (3)Molecular Neurobiology,
Brain Research Institute, Niigata University, 1-757 Asahimachi, Chuoku, Niigata
951-8585, Japan. (4)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine,
Hokkaido University, Kita-15 Nishi-7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan; Cancer
Institute, Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research, 3-8-31 Ariake, Koto-ku, Tokyo
135-8550, Japan. (5)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine,
Hokkaido University, Kita-15 Nishi-7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.
Electronic address: h-isasaki@med.hokudai.ac.jp.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by the progressive loss of dopaminergic
neurons, neurons that are regulated by the development, protection and function
of neuregulin-1 (NRG1)-ErbB4 signals, in the substantia nigra (SN). NRG1 is a
neurotrophic differentiation factor and one of its isoforms is a sensory and
motor neuron-derived factor (SMDF), mostly expressed in neurons. To examine the
relationship between NRG1 SMDF and PD, we tested whether NRG1 SMDF can be
detected and measured in plasma and whether their level in plasma correlates with
the clinical severity of PD. We detected NRG1 SMDF to be immunoreactive in
plasma. Using an ELISA method specific for NRG1 SMDF, we found that NRG1 SMDF
levels were significantly reduced in sporadic PD as compared to controls.
However, levels of plasma NRG1 SMDF showed no correlation with the clinical
severity of PD. Additionally, we found that there was a correlation of NRG1 SMDF 
levels in CSF with that in plasma where levels in plasma were significantly
higher, at approximately ten times that in CSF. Finally, we also examined the
expression of NRG1 SMDF in the post-mortem brain using immunohistochemistry and
showed that Lewy bodies in the SN of patients with PD were immunoreactive for
NRG1 SMDF. In summary, we found that the reduction of plasma NRG1 SMDF is
specifically associated with PD, but has no correlation with the clinical
severity of PD. These findings of NRG1 SMDF may provide important complementary
information for diagnosing the onset of PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25524406  [PubMed - in process]


981. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Feb;21(2):142-6. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.016. Epub 2014 Nov 29.

Factor analysis of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale in Parkinson's disease.

Broen MP(1), Moonen AJ(2), Kuijf ML(3), Dujardin K(4), Marsh L(5), Richard IH(6),
Starkstein SE(7), Martinez-Martin P(8), Leentjens AF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: martijn.broen@mumc.nl. (2)Department of
Psychiatry, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Neurology, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The
Netherlands. (4)Neurology and Movement Disorders Unit, Lille University Medical
Center, Lille, France. (5)Departments of Psychiatry and Department of Neurology, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (6)Departments
of Neurology and Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester School of
Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. (7)School of Psychiatry, University
of Western Australia and Fremantle Hospital, Fremantle, Western Australia,
Australia. (8)Area of Applied Epidemiology, National Centre for Epidemiology, and
CIBERNED, Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Several studies have validated the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale
(HAMD) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and reported adequate
reliability and construct validity. However, the factorial validity of the HAMD
has not yet been investigated. The aim of our analysis was to explore the factor 
structure of the HAMD in a large sample of PD patients.
METHODS: A principal component analysis of the 17-item HAMD was performed on data
of 341 PD patients, available from a previous cross sectional study on anxiety.
An eigenvalue ≥1 was used to determine the number of factors. Factor loadings
≥0.4 in combination with oblique rotations were used to identify which variables 
made up the factors. Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin measure (KMO), Cronbach's alpha,
Bartlett's test, communality, percentage of non-redundant residuals and the
component correlation matrix were computed to assess factor validity.
RESULTS: KMO verified the sample's adequacy for factor analysis and Cronbach's
alpha indicated a good internal consistency of the total scale. Six factors had
eigenvalues ≥1 and together explained 59.19% of the variance. The number of items
per factor varied from 1 to 6. Inter-item correlations within each component were
low. There was a high percentage of non-redundant residuals and low communality.
CONCLUSION: This analysis demonstrates that the factorial validity of the HAMD in
PD is unsatisfactory. This implies that the scale is not appropriate for studying
specific symptom domains of depression based on factorial structure in a PD
population.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25523963  [PubMed - in process]


982. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2015;12(1):47-52.

No significant effect of 7,8-dihydroxyflavone on APP processing and
Alzheimer-associated phenotypes.

Zhou W, Li X, Huang D, Zhou W, Li T, Song W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The University of British Columbia, 2255 Wesbrook
Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada; Fax: 604-822-7756; or Children's Hospital of
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400014, China. weihong@mail.ubc.ca.

It is reported that 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (DHF), a TrkB agonist, has beneficial
effects on neuronal excitotoxicity, stroke, and Parkinson disease in animal
models by enhancing axon regeneration, muscle reinnervation and neuromuscular
transmission. The effect of DHF on AD neuropathology remains not well defined. In
this study we examined whether DHF affects APP processing and cognitive functions
in vitro and in vivo. We found that DHF had no significant effect on amyloid β
precursor protein (APP), BACE1 and amyloid β protein (Aβ). DHF had little effect 
on APP processing in cell cultures. DHF treatment did not reduce the deposition
of Aβ to form neuritic plaques in the brain of AD model mice APP23/PS45.
Furthermore, DHF did not alleviate learning and memory impairments in the AD
model mice. Our study suggest that further extensive and careful studies are
warranted for considering DHF as a new therapeutic agent for reducing amyloid
pathology and alleviating cognitive deficits for AD treatment.

PMID: 25523427  [PubMed - in process]


983. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb;30(2):190-5. doi: 10.1002/mds.26083. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Combining cell transplants or gene therapy with deep brain stimulation for
Parkinson's disease.

Rowland NC(1), Starr PA, Larson PS, Ostrem JL, Marks WJ Jr, Lim DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco,
CA, USA.

Cell transplantation and gene therapy each show promise to enhance the treatment 
of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, because cell transplantation and gene
therapy generally require direct delivery to the central nervous system, clinical
trial design involves unique scientific, ethical, and financial concerns related 
to the invasive nature of the procedure. Typically, such biologics have been
tested in PD patients who have not received any neurosurgical intervention. Here,
we suggest that PD patients undergoing deep brain stimulation (DBS) device
implantation are an ideal patient population for the clinical evaluation of cell 
transplantation and gene therapy. Randomizing subjects to an experimental group
that receives the biologic concurrently with the DBS implantation-or to a control
group that receives the DBS treatment alone-has several compelling advantages.
First, this study design enables the participation of patients likely to benefit 
from DBS, many of whom simultaneously meet the inclusion criteria of biologic
studies. Second, the need for a sham neurosurgical procedure is eliminated, which
may reduce ethical concerns, promote patient recruitment, and enhance the
blinding of surgical trials. Third, testing the biologic by "piggybacking" onto
an established, reimbursable procedure should reduce the cost of clinical trials,
which may allow a greater number of biologics to reach this critical stage of
research translation. Finally, this clinical trial design may lead to
combinatorial treatment strategies that provide PD patients with more durable
control over disabling motor symptoms. By combining neuromodulation with
biologics, we may also reveal important treatment paradigms relevant to other
diseases of the brain.

© 2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25521796  [PubMed - in process]


984. Int J Nurs Pract. 2014 Dec 17. doi: 10.1111/ijn.12377. [Epub ahead of print]

Factors contributing to malnutrition in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Kim SR(1), Chung SJ, Yoo S.

Author information: 
(1)College of Nursing, Chonbuk National University, Jeonju, Korea.

Our objective in this study was to evaluate the nutritional status and to
identify clinical, psychosocial, and nutritional factors contributing to
malnutrition in Korean patients with Parkinson's disease. We used a descriptive, 
cross-sectional study design. Of 102 enrolled patients, 26 (25.5%) were
malnourished and 27 (26.5%) were at risk of malnutrition based on
Mini-Nutritional Assessment scores. Malnutrition was related to activity of daily
living score, Hoehn and Yahr stage, duration of levodopa therapy, Beck Depression
Inventory and Spielberger's Anxiety Inventory scores, body weight, body weight at
onset of Parkinson's disease, and body mass index. On multiple logistic
regression analysis, anxiety score, duration of levodopa therapy, body weight at 
onset of Parkinson's disease, and loss of body weight were significant factors
predicting malnutrition in Parkinson's disease patients. Therefore, nutritional
assessment, including psychological evaluation, is required for Parkinson's
disease patients to facilitate interdisciplinary nutritional intervention for
malnourished patients.

© 2014 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

PMID: 25521723  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


985. J Med Assoc Thai. 2014 Feb;97 Suppl 2:S159-67.

Non-motor symptoms in Thai patients with Parkinson's disease studied at
Phramongkutklao Hospital.

Vongvaivanich K, Nidhinandana S, Udommongkol C, Chairungsaris P, Chinvarun Y,
Wongmek W, Suphakasem S, Suwantamee J, Sithinamsuwan P.

BACKGROUND: Non-motor symptoms (NMS) ofParkinson's disease (PD) have been
recently recognized to be as disabling as motor symptoms in PD. However these
symptoms are still under recognized causing delay in treatment and inadequate
management. This study aimed to identify NMS in Thai PD patients using the NMS
screening questionnaire (NMSQuest).
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease visiting the
neurology clinic in 2008 were enrolled. NMSQuest-Thai version (NMSQ-T) was
applied to patients to identify NMS.
RESULTS: Collected data from questionnaires completed by 165 probable idiopathic 
PD was analyzed. The demographic profiles showed mean age of 68.6 years with mean
disease duration 5.4 years, and male 56.4%. Patients had Hoehn & Yahrstaging,
stage-2: 43%, stage-3: 24.8%, stage-I: 24.2% and stage-4: 7.9%. The average
dosage oflevodopa was 456.4 mg/d. Mean total NMSQ-T score was 9.5. Most prevalent
of non-motor symptom was nocturia (64.2%). The domains which gained most positive
answers were urinary domain (54.55%). Inter-domain correlations were
significantly found in all, except the sexual domain. Multivariate analysis
revealed the duration ofPD and stages were significantly correlated with the
total score ofNMS. Only three percent denied having any non-motor symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Almost all Thai PD had NMS. Urinary domain is the most prevalent in
our series. Screening using NMSQ-Tto recognize NMS would be a helpful tool to
improve the quality of life in Thai Parkinson 's disease.

PMID: 25518190  [PubMed - in process]


986. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Mar;1338:16-37. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12577. Epub 2014 Dec 16.

Therapeutic strategies in Parkinson's disease: what we have learned from animal
models.

Valadas JS(1), Vos M, Verstreken P.

Author information: 
(1)VIB Center for the Biology of Disease; Department of Human Genetics, Leuven
Research Institute for Neuroscience and Disease (LIND), KU Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium.

Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, is
characterized by a loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, as well 
as in other brain areas. The currently available dopamine replacement therapy
provides merely symptomatic benefit and is ineffective because habituation and
side effects arise relatively quickly. Studying the genetic forms of PD in animal
models provides novel insight that allows targeting of specific aspects of this
heterogenic disease more specifically. Among others, two important cellular
deficits are associated with PD; these deficits relate to (1) synaptic
transmission and vesicle trafficking, and (2) mitochondrial function, relating
respectively to the dominant and recessive mutations in PD-causing genes. With
increased knowledge of PD, the possibility of identifying an efficient,
long-lasting treatment is becoming more conceivable, but this can only be done
with an increased knowledge of the specific affected cellular mechanisms. This
review discusses how discoveries in animal models of PD have clarified the
therapeutic potential of pathways disrupted in PD, with a specific focus on
synaptic transmission, vesicle trafficking, and mitochondrial function.

© 2014 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 25515068  [PubMed - in process]


987. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015;5(1):131-9. doi: 10.3233/JPD-140478.

Detecting and predicting balance decline in Parkinson disease: a prospective
cohort study.

Duncan RP(1), Leddy AL(2), Cavanaugh JT(3), Dibble LE(4), Ellis TD(5), Ford
MP(6), Foreman KB(4), Earhart GM(7).

Author information: 
(1)Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, Program in Physical
Therapy, MO, USA Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis
School of Medicine, MO, USA. (2)Rehabilitation Hospital of the Pacific,
Department of Physical Therapy, HI, USA. (3)Department of Physical Therapy,
University of New England, ME, USA. (4)Department of Physical Therapy, University
of Utah, UT, USA. (5)Department of Physical Therapy and Athletic Training, Boston
University, MA, USA. (6)Department of Physical Therapy, Samford University, AL,
USA. (7)Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, Program in
Physical Therapy, MO, USA Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology, Washington
University in St. Louis School of Medicine, MO, USA Department of Neurology,
Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, MO, USA.

BACKGROUND: The natural progression of balance decline in individuals with
Parkinson disease (PD) is not well understood.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to: 1) compare the utility of three standardized clinical
measures for detecting balance decline over 1-year, 2) identify components of
balance susceptible to decline, and 3) identify factors useful for predicting
future balance decline.
METHODS: Eighty people with PD (59% male; mean age 68.2 ± 9.3; Hoehn & Yahr range
I-IV) completed Balance Evaluation Systems Test (BESTest), Mini-BESTest, and Berg
Balance Scale (BBS) assessments. Baseline predictor variables included the
MDS-UPDRS III sub-score, presence of freezing, 6-month fall history, age, gender,
and physical activity. Balance and MDS-UPDRS III assessments were repeated at 6
(n = 51) and 12 months (n = 44).
RESULTS: BESTest and Mini-BESTest score declined over 6 and 12 months (P < 0.01).
Postural responses, stability limits, and sensory orientation were most
susceptible to decline. BBS score did not change (P > 0.01). MDS-UPDRS III score 
was unchanged over 6 months (P > 0.01), but declined over 12 months (P < 0.01).
Change in BESTest score over 6 months was related to baseline MDS-UPDRS III, H&Y,
freezing, and fall history (P < 0.05). Change in BESTest score over 12 months was
related to baseline MDS-UPDRS III and freezing (P < 0.05). Change in Mini-BESTest
over 12 months was related to baseline MDS-UPDRS III and age (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The BESTest and Mini-BESTest were responsive to balance decline in
individuals with PD and helped to identify decline in underlying balance
components. Disease severity and freezing most consistently predicted balance
decline in persons with PD.

PMID: 25514984  [PubMed - in process]


988. Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Dec;37(6):561-2; discussion 577-604. doi:
10.1017/S0140525X13004093.

Why we can talk, debate, and change our minds: neural circuits, basal ganglia
operations, and transcriptional factors.

Lieberman P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive,Linguistic and Psychological Sciences,Brown
University,Providence,RI 02912.Philip.Lieberman@gmail.comwww.Brown.edu.

Comment on
    Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Dec;37(6):529-46.

Ackermann et al. disregard attested knowledge concerning aphasia, Parkinson
disease, cortical-to-striatal circuits, basal ganglia, laryngeal phonation, and
other matters. Their dual-pathway model cannot account for "what is special about
the human brain." Their human cortical-to-laryngeal neural circuit does not
exist. Basal ganglia operations, enhanced by mutations on FOXP2, confer human
motor-control, linguistic, and cognitive capabilities.

PMID: 25514951  [PubMed - in process]


989. Neurotoxicology. 2015 Jan;46:101-16. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2014.12.002. Epub 2014 
Dec 13.

An update on the rotenone models of Parkinson's disease: their ability to
reproduce the features of clinical disease and model gene-environment
interactions.

Johnson ME(1), Bobrovskaya L(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy and Medical Sciences, Sansom Institute for Health Research,
University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia. (2)School of
Pharmacy and Medical Sciences, Sansom Institute for Health Research, University
of South Australia, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia. Electronic address:
Larisa.Bobrovskaya@unisa.edu.au.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder
that is characterized by two major neuropathological hallmarks: the degeneration 
of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) and the presence of Lewy
bodies in the surviving SN neurons, as well as other regions of the central and
peripheral nervous system. Animal models have been invaluable tools for
investigating the underlying mechanisms of the pathogenesis of PD and testing new
potential symptomatic, neuroprotective and neurorestorative therapies. However,
the usefulness of these models is dependent on how precisely they replicate the
features of clinical PD with some studies now employing combined gene-environment
models to replicate more of the affected pathways. The rotenone model of PD has
become of great interest following the seminal paper by the Greenamyre group in
2000 (Betarbet et al., 2000). This paper reported for the first time that
systemic rotenone was able to reproduce the two pathological hallmarks of PD as
well as certain parkinsonian motor deficits. Since 2000, many research groups
have actively used the rotenone model worldwide. This paper will review rotenone 
models, focusing upon their ability to reproduce the two pathological hallmarks
of PD, motor deficits, extranigral pathology and non-motor symptoms. We will also
summarize the recent advances in neuroprotective therapies, focusing on those
that investigated non-motor symptoms and review rotenone models used in
combination with PD genetic models to investigate gene-environment interactions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25514659  [PubMed - in process]


990. J Cogn Neurosci. 2015 Jun;27(6):1215-37. doi: 10.1162/jocn_a_00770. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Disentangling the role of cortico-Basal Ganglia loops in top-down and bottom-up
visual attention: an investigation of attention deficits in Parkinson disease.

Tommasi G(1), Fiorio M, Yelnik J, Krack P, Sala F, Schmitt E, Fraix V, Bertolasi 
L, Le Bas JF, Ricciardi GK, Fiaschi A, Theeuwes J, Pollak P, Chelazzi L.

Author information: 
(1)University of Verona.

It is solidly established that top-down (goal-driven) and bottom-up
(stimulus-driven) attention mechanisms depend on distributed cortical networks,
including prefrontal and frontoparietal regions. On the other hand, it is less
clear whether the BG also contribute to one or the other of these mechanisms, or 
to both. The current study was principally undertaken to clarify this issue.
Parkinson disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting the BG, 
has proven to be an effective model for investigating the contribution of the BG 
to different brain functions; therefore, we set out to investigate deficits of
top-down and bottom-up attention in a selected cohort of PD patients. With this
objective in mind, we compared the performance on three computerized tasks of two
groups of 12 parkinsonian patients (assessed without any treatment), one
otherwise pharmacologically treated and the other also surgically treated, with
that of a group of controls. The main behavioral tool for our study was an
attentional capture task, which enabled us to tap the competition between
top-down and bottom-up mechanisms of visual attention. This task was suitably
combined with a choice RT and a simple RT task to isolate any specific deficit of
attention from deficits in motor response selection and initiation. In the two
groups of patients, we found an equivalent increase of attentional capture but
also comparable delays in target selection in the absence of any salient
distractor (reflecting impaired top-down mechanisms) and movement initiation
compared with controls. In contrast, motor response selection processes appeared 
to be prolonged only in the operated patients. Our results confirm that the BG
are involved in both motor and cognitive domains. Specifically, damage to the BG,
as it occurs in PD, leads to a distinct deficit of top-down control of visual
attention, and this can account, albeit indirectly, for the enhancement of
attentional capture, reflecting weakened ability of top-down mechanisms to
antagonize bottom-up control.

PMID: 25514652  [PubMed - in process]


991. Radiology. 2014 Nov;273(2):628-9.

Response.

Cosottini M, Frosini D, Pesaresi I, Ceravolo R, Tosetti M.

Comment on
    Radiology. 2014 Jun;271(3):831-8.
    Radiology. 2014 Nov;273(2):627-8.

PMID: 25513662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Neurology. 2014 Oct 21;83(17):1582.

Author response.

Donadio V.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2014 Apr 15;82(15):1362-9.
    Neurology. 2014 Oct 21;83(17):1582.

PMID: 25513640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Ther Ultrasound. 2014 May 31;2:11. doi: 10.1186/2050-5736-2-11. eCollection
2014.

First experience with MR-guided focused ultrasound in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease.

Magara A(1), Bühler R(2), Moser D(3), Kowalski M(4), Pourtehrani P(5), Jeanmonod 
D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Praxis für Neurologie, Monbijoustrasse 73, 3007 Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Neurological Division, Bürgerspital Solothurn, Schöngrünstrasse 38, 4500
Solothurn, Switzerland. (3)Sonimodul, Center for Ultrasound Functional
Neurosurgery, Leopoldstrassse 1, CH-4500 Solothurn, Switzerland. (4)Privatklinik 
Obach, Leopoldstrasse 5, 4500 Solothurn, Switzerland. (5)Rodiag Diagnostics
Centers, Leopoldstrasse 3, 4500 Solothurn, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Radiofrequency (RF) subthalamotomies have been proposed since the
1960s to treat patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, the
magnetic resonance (MR)-guided focused ultrasound technology (MRgFUS) offers the 
possibility to perform subthalamic thermocoagulations with reduced risks and
optimized accuracy. We describe here the initial results of the MRgFUS
pallidothalamic tractotomy (PTT), an anatomical and physiological update of the
earlier subthalamotomies.
METHODS: Thirteen consecutive patients suffering from chronic (mean disease
duration 9.7 years) and therapy-resistant PD were treated unilaterally with an
MRgFUS PTT. Primary relief assessment indicators were the score reduction of the 
Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and the patient estimation of
global symptom relief (GSR) taken at 3 months follow-up. Final temperatures at
target were between 52°C and 59°C. The MR examinations were performed before the 
treatment, 2 days and 3 months after it. The accuracy of the targeting was
calculated on 2 days post-treatment MR pictures for each PTT lesion.
RESULTS: The first four patients received a PTT using the lesional parameters
applied for thalamotomies. They experienced clear-cut recurrences at 3 months
(mean UPDRS relief 7.6%, mean GSR 22.5%), and their MR showed no sign of thermal 
lesion in T2-weighted (T2w) images. As a consequence, the treatment protocol was 
adapted for the following nine patients by applying repetition of the final
temperatures 4 to 5 times. That produced thermocoagulations of larger volumes
(172 mm(3) against 83 mm(3) for the first four patients), which remained visible 
at 3 months on T2w images. These nine patients enjoyed a mean UPDRS reduction of 
60.9% and a GSR of 56.7%, very close to the results obtained with radiofrequency 
lesioning. The targeting accuracy for the whole patient group was 0.5, 0.5, and
0.6 mm for the anteroposterior (AP), mediolateral (ML), and dorsoventral (DV)
dimensions, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the feasibility, safety, and accuracy of the
MRgFUS PTT. To obtain similar results as the ones of RF PTT, it was necessary to 
integrate the fact that white matter, in this case, the pallidothalamic tract,
requires repeated thermal exposition to achieve full lesioning and thus full
therapeutic effect.

PMCID: PMC4266014
PMID: 25512869  [PubMed]


994. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Jan;11(1):5-6. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.235. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Parkinson disease: How reliable are prodromal indicators of Parkinson disease?

Silveira-Moriyama L(1), Lees AJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Research Program in Medicine, Universidade Nove de Julho
(Uninove), 235/249 Rua Vergueiro, São Paulo, SP 01504-001, Brazil. (2)University 
College London, Reta Lila Weston Institute, 1 Wakefield Street, London WC1N 1PJ, 
UK.

PMID: 25511898  [PubMed - in process]


995. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Jan;11(1):41-55. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.232. Epub 2014
Dec 16.

Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in trials for Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases.

Lleó A(1), Cavedo E(2), Parnetti L(3), Vanderstichele H(4), Herukka SK(5),
Andreasen N(6), Ghidoni R(2), Lewczuk P(7), Jeromin A(8), Winblad B(6), Tsolaki
M(9), Mroczko B(10), Visser PJ(11), Santana I(12), Svenningsson P(6), Blennow
K(13), Aarsland D(14), Molinuevo JL(15), Zetterberg H(13), Mollenhauer B(16).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques, Hospital de
Sant Pau, Sant Antoni Maria, Claret 167, Barcelona 08025, Spain. (2)IRCCS
Istituto Centro San Giovanni di Dio-Fatebenefratelli, Italy. (3)Ospedale Santa
Maria della Misericordia, Università di Perugia, Italy. (4)ADxNeurosciences,
Belgium. (5)University of Eastern Finland and Kuopio University Hospital,
Finland. (6)Karolinska Institute, Sweden. (7)Universitätsklinikum Erlangen and
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany. (8)Quanterix, USA.
(9)Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece. (10)Medical University of
Białystok, Poland. (11)Maastricht University, Netherlands. (12)University of
Coimbra, Portugal. (13)The Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg,
Sweden. (14)Stavanger University Hospital, Norway. (15)ICN Hospital Clinic i
Universitari, IDIBAPS, Spain. (16)Paracelsus-Elena-Klinik, Germany.

Alzheimer disease (AD) and Parkinson disease (PD) are the most common
neurodegenerative disorders. For both diseases, early intervention is thought to 
be essential to the success of disease-modifying treatments. Cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) can reflect some of the pathophysiological changes that occur in the brain,
and the number of CSF biomarkers under investigation in neurodegenerative
conditions has grown rapidly in the past 20 years. In AD, CSF biomarkers are
increasingly being used in clinical practice, and have been incorporated into the
majority of clinical trials to demonstrate target engagement, to enrich or
stratify patient groups, and to find evidence of disease modification. In PD, CSF
biomarkers have not yet reached the clinic, but are being studied in patients
with parkinsonism, and are being used in clinical trials either to monitor
progression or to demonstrate target engagement and downstream effects of drugs. 
CSF biomarkers might also serve as surrogate markers of clinical benefit after a 
specific therapeutic intervention, although additional data are required. It is
anticipated that CSF biomarkers will have an important role in trials aimed at
disease modification in the near future. In this Review, we provide an overview
of CSF biomarkers in AD and PD, and discuss their role in clinical trials.

PMID: 25511894  [PubMed - in process]


996. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Jan;11(1):1. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.238. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Parkinson disease: Facilitating detection of prodromal Parkinson disease in
primary care clinics.

Chase A.

Comment on
    Lancet Neurol. 2015 Jan;14(1):57-64.

PMID: 25511893  [PubMed - in process]


997. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Feb;74:325-35. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2014.12.007. Epub 2014 Dec 
12.

Prolonged treatment with pramipexole promotes physical interaction of striatal
dopamine D3 autoreceptors with dopamine transporters to reduce dopamine uptake.

Castro-Hernández J(1), Afonso-Oramas D(1), Cruz-Muros I(1), Salas-Hernández J(1),
Barroso-Chinea P(1), Moratalla R(2), Millan MJ(3), González-Hernández T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Anatomía, Facultad de Medicina, Instituto de Tecnologías
Biomédicas (ITB, CIBICAN), Universidad de La Laguna, Tenerife, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Biología Funcional y de Sistemas, Instituto Cajal, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Madrid, Spain; Centro de investigación
Biomédica en Red sobre enfermedades neurodegenerativas, CIBERNED, Instituto de
Salud Carlos III, Spain. (3)Pole of Innovation in Neuropsychopharmacology,
Institut de Recherches Servier, 78290 Croissy sur Seine, France. (4)Departamento 
de Anatomía, Facultad de Medicina, Instituto de Tecnologías Biomédicas (ITB,
CIBICAN), Universidad de La Laguna, Tenerife, Spain; Centro de investigación
Biomédica en Red sobre enfermedades neurodegenerativas, CIBERNED, Instituto de
Salud Carlos III, Spain. Electronic address: tgonhern@ull.es.

The dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT), a membrane glycoprotein expressed in
dopaminergic neurons, clears DA from extracellular space and is regulated by
diverse presynaptic proteins like protein kinases, α-synuclein, D2 and D3
autoreceptors. DAT dysfunction is implicated in Parkinson's disease and
depression, which are therapeutically treated by dopaminergic D2/D3 receptor
(D2/D3R) agonists. It is, then, important to improve our understanding of
interactions between D3R and DAT. We show that prolonged administration of
pramipexole (0.1mg/kg/day, 6 to 21 days), a preferential D3R agonist, leads to a 
decrease in DA uptake in mouse striatum that reflects a reduction in DAT affinity
for DA in the absence of any change in DAT density or subcellular distribution.
The effect of pramipexole was absent in mice with genetically-deleted D3R
(D3R(-/-)), yet unaffected in mice genetically deprived of D2R (D2R(-/-)).
Pramipexole treatment induced a physical interaction between D3R and DAT, as
assessed by co-immunoprecipitation and in situ proximity ligation assay.
Furthermore, it promoted the formation of DAT dimers and DAT association with
both D2R and α-synuclein, effects that were abolished in D3R(-/-) mice, yet
unaffected in D2R(-/-) mice, indicating dependence upon D3R. Collectively, these 
data suggest that prolonged treatment with dopaminergic D3 agonists provokes a
reduction in DA reuptake by dopaminergic neurons related to a
hitherto-unsuspected modification of the DAT interactome. These observations
provide novel insights into the long-term antiparkinson, antidepressant and
additional clinical actions of pramipexole and other D3R agonists.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25511804  [PubMed - in process]


998. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Feb;21(2):150-3. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.023. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

Distinguishing idiopathic Parkinson's disease from other parkinsonian syndromes
by breath test.

Nakhleh MK(1), Badarny S(2), Winer R(3), Jeries R(1), Finberg J(4), Haick H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Russell Berrie Nanotechnology
Institute, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 3200003, Israel.
(2)Movement Disorders Clinic, Department of Neurology, Carmel Medical Center, and
Faculty of Medicine, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 3200003,
Israel. Electronic address: samihba@clalit.org.il. (3)Movement Disorders Clinic, 
Department of Neurology, Carmel Medical Center, and Faculty of Medicine, Technion
- Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 3200003, Israel. (4)Department of
Molecular Pharmacology, Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion - Israel
Institute of Technology, Haifa 31096, Israel. (5)Department of Chemical
Engineering and Russell Berrie Nanotechnology Institute, Technion - Israel
Institute of Technology, Haifa 3200003, Israel. Electronic address:
hhossam@technion.ac.il.

INTRODUCTION: Diagnosis of different parkinsonian syndromes is linked with high
misdiagnosis rates and various confounding factors. This is particularly
problematic in its early stages. With this in mind, the current pilot study aimed
to distinguish between Idiopathic Parkinson's Disease (iPD), other Parkinsonian
syndromes (non-iPD) and healthy subjects, by a breath test that analyzes the
exhaled volatile organic compounds using a highly sensitive nanoarray.
METHODS: Breath samples of 44 iPD, 16 non-iPD patients and 37 healthy controls
were collected. The samples were passed over a nanoarray and the resulting
electrical signals were analyzed with discriminant factor analysis as well as by 
a K-fold cross-validation method, to test the accuracy of the model.
RESULTS: Comparison of non-iPD with iPD states yielded 88% sensitivity, 88%
accuracy, and 88% Receiver Operating Characteristic area under the curve in the
training set samples with known identity. The validation set of this comparison
scored 81% sensitivity and accuracy and 92% negative predictive value. Comparison
between atypical parkinsonism states and healthy subjects scored 94% sensitivity 
and 85% accuracy in the training set samples with known identity. The validation 
set of this comparison scored 81% sensitivity and 78% accuracy. The obtained
results were not affected by l-Dopa or MAO-B inhibitor treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Exhaled breath analysis with nanoarray is a promising approach for a
non-invasive, inexpensive, and portable technique for differentiation between
different Parkinsonian states. A larger cohort is required in order to establish 
the clinical usefulness of the method.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25511331  [PubMed - in process]


999. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Feb;21(2):131-7. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.020. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Resting activity in visual and corticostriatal pathways in Parkinson's disease
with hallucinations.

Yao N(1), Pang S(2), Cheung C(3), Chang RS(2), Lau KK(2), Suckling J(4), Yu K(1),
Mak HK(5), McAlonan G(6), Ho SL(7), Chua SE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Queen Mary Hospital, The University of Hong Kong,
Pokfulam, Hong Kong. (2)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, The
University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong. (3)Department of
Psychiatry, Queen Mary Hospital, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong
Kong; State Key Laboratory for Cognitive Sciences, The University of Hong Kong,
Pokfulam, Hong Kong. (4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom & Cambridge and
Peterborough Foundation NHS Trust, UK. (5)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, The
University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong. (6)Department of Psychiatry, Queen 
Mary Hospital, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong; State Key
Laboratory for Cognitive Sciences, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong
Kong; Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Science, Institute of
Psychiatry, King's College London, London SE5 8AZ, UK. Electronic address:
grainne.mcalonan@kcl.ac.uk. (7)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, The
University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong. Electronic address:
slho@hku.hk.

BACKGROUND: Visual hallucinations are an important non-motor complication of
Parkinson's disease (PD) and carry a negative prognosis. Their biological basis
is uncertain, but may relate to the activity of resting state networks in brain. 
We therefore aimed to investigate functional activity of brain in patients with
visual hallucinations (PDVH) in resting state compared to patients without
hallucinations (PDnonVH) and a healthy control group (HC).
METHODS: Resting state functional MRI was acquired and the primary analysis
compared the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) across groups. This
informed a secondary analysis, in the PD groups only, comparing functional
connectivity between a 'seed' region in the occipital lobe and the rest of the
brain.
RESULTS: Individuals with PDVH showed lower ALFF in bilateral lingual gyrus and
cuneus and greater ALFF in temporo-parietal regions, medial temporal gyrus and
cerebellum than PDnonVH and HC. PDnonVH also had lower ALFF in occipitoparietal
region and greater ALFF in medial temporal gyrus, temporo-parietal and cerebellum
regions than HC. Functional connectivity analysis revealed that, although both PD
groups had lower occipital functional connectivity relative to the HC group,
occipital - corticostriatal connectivity was significantly higher in those with
PDVH compared with PDnonVH.
CONCLUSION: Our study reveals widespread hemodynamic alterations in PD. However, 
within a functionally abnormal occipital lobe, those with PDVH have even lower
ALFF than non-hallucinators, but have higher occipital functional connectivity
with cortical-striatal regions. These findings suggest disruption of pathways
underpinning both primary visual perceptual and intrinsic visual integration may 
contribute to visual hallucinations in PD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25511330  [PubMed - in process]


1000. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015 Feb;21(2):126-30. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.11.018. Epub 2014 Nov 28.

Reasons for mild parkinsonian signs - which constellation may indicate
neurodegeneration?

Lerche S(1), Brockmann K(2), Wurster I(2), Gaenslen A(2), Roeben B(2), Holz D(2),
Eschweiler GW(3), Maetzler W(2), Berg D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Neurology, Department of Neurodegeneration and Hertie-Institute for 
Clinical Brain Research, University of Tuebingen, Hoppe Seyler-Strasse 3, 72076
Tuebingen, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of
Tuebingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. Electronic address: 
Stefanie.lerche@uni-tuebingen.de. (2)Center of Neurology, Department of
Neurodegeneration and Hertie-Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of
Tuebingen, Hoppe Seyler-Strasse 3, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany; German Center for
Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Tuebingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27,
72076 Tuebingen, Germany. (3)Geriatric Center and Department of Psychiatry and
Psychotherapy, University Hospital of Tübingen, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Mild parkinsonian signs (MPS) are common in the elderly population.
Several factors including physical decline and comorbidities in addition to
neurodegeneration may be possible sources for MPS. The objective was to examine
whether MPS are associated with a history of orthopedic disturbances, vascular
diseases or prodromal markers for neurodegeneration.
METHODS: The TREND study is a prospective longitudinal cohort study in
individuals >50 years with biennial assessments designed to identify prodromal
markers for neurodegeneration. In this substudy, 1091 elderly individuals were
evaluated for a possible association of MPS with prodromal markers for
neurodegeneration, orthopedic disturbances, vascular diseases, as well as
cerebral abnormalities. These factors were assessed by self-administered
questionnaires, with a structured health interview, a neurological examination
and by transcranial sonography.
RESULTS: 82 participants showed MPS. They were found to have more often hyposmia 
and RBD, had a higher autonomic dysfunction score and they more frequently showed
hyperechogenicity of the substantia nigra compared to controls. Neither
orthopedic disturbances nor vascular diseases were significantly associated with 
the prevalence of MPS.
CONCLUSION: MPS might be a sign of early neurodegeneration rather than caused by 
other motor influencing diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25511329  [PubMed - in process]

